Request for Proposals
i RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
SELECTION
OF
CONSULTANT
for
Development and Operation of
National Data and Analytics
Platform (NDAP)
REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS
Government of India
April 2026

-- 1 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
ii RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project

-- 2 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
iii RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Contents
REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS .......................................................................................................... iv
Disclaimer ........................................................................................................................................... v
Glossary............................................................................................................................................. vii
Invitation for Proposals ....................................................................................................................... 9
1. INTRODUCTION ................................................................................................................... 3
2. INSTRUCTIONS TO APPLICANTS ..................................................................................... 7
3. CRITERIA FOR EVALUATION ......................................................................................... 34
4. FRAUD AND CORRUPT PRACTICES ............................................................................. 41
5. PRE-PROPOSAL CONFERENCE ...................................................................................... 44
6. MISCELLANEOUS.............................................................................................................. 45
Terms of Reference (TOR) ................................................................................................................ 51
1. GENERAL ....................................................................................................................... 51
2. OBJECTIVE AND SCOPE OF SERVICES .................................................................... 51
3. TRANSITION PHASE .................................................................................................... 51
4. DEVELOPMENT PHASE ............................................................................................... 53
5 OPERATIONS PHASE .................................................................................................... 77
6. TIME AND PAYMENT SCHEDULE .............................................................................. 79
7. MEETINGS...................................................................................................................... 81
8. CONSULTANCY TEAM ................................................................................................. 82
9. REPORTING ................................................................................................................... 86
10. DATA TO BE MADE AVAILABLE BY THE AUTHORITY...................................... 87
11. COMPLETION OF SERVICES .................................................................................. 87
Contents............................................................................................................................................. 96
Annexes ............................................................................................................................................. 97
Service Level Agreement .................................................................................................................140
List Of Bid-Specific Provisions ........................................................................................................178

-- 3 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
iv RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
SELECTION
OF
CONSULTANT
REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS

-- 4 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
v RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Disclaimer
The information contained in this Request for Proposals document (“RFP”) or subsequently
provided to Applicants, whether verbally or in documentary or any other form by or on
behalf of the Authority or any of its employees or advisers, is provided to Applicants on the
terms and conditions set out in this RFP and such other terms and conditions subject to which
such information is provided.
This RFP is not an agreement and is neither an offer nor invitation by the Authority to the
prospective Applicants or any other person. The purpose of this RFP is to provide interested
parties with information that may be useful to them in the formulation of their Proposals
pursuant to this RFP. This RFP includes statements, which reflect various assumptions and
assessments arrived at by the Authority in relation to the Consultancy. Such assumptions,
assessments and statements do not purport to contain all the information that each Applicant
may require. This RFP may not be appropriate for all persons, and it is not possible for the
Authority, its employees or advisers to consider the objectives, technical expertise and
particular needs of each party who reads or uses this RFP. The assumptions, assessments,
statements and information contained in this RFP, may not be complete, accurate, adequate
or correct. Each Applicant should, therefore, conduct its own investigations and analysis and
should check the accuracy, adequacy, correctness, reliability and completeness of the
assumptions, assessments and information contained in this RFP and obtain independent
advice from appropriate sources.
Information provided in this RFP to the Applicants is on a wide range of matters, some of
which depends upon interpretation of law. The information given is not an exhaustive
account of statutory requirements and should not be regarded as a complete or authoritative
statement of law. The Authority accepts no responsibility for the accuracy or otherwise for
any interpretation or opinion on the law expressed herein.
The Authority, its employees and advisers make no representation or warranty and shall have
no liability to any person including any Applicant under any law, statute, rules or regulations
or tort, principles of restitution or unjust enrichment or otherwise for any loss, damages, cost
or expense which may arise from or be incurred or suffered on account of anything contained
in this RFP or otherwise, including the accuracy, adequacy, correctness, reliability or
completeness of the RFP and any assessment, assumption, statement or information
contained therein or deemed to form part of this RFP or arising in any way in this Selection
Process.
The Authority also accepts no liability of any nature whether resulting from negligence or
otherwise, howsoever caused, arising from reliance of any Applicant upon the statements
contained in this RFP.
The Authority may in its absolute discretion, but without being under any obligation to do
so, update, amend or supplement the information, assessment or assumption contained in
this RFP.
The issue of this RFP does not imply that the Authority is bound to select an Applicant or to
appoint the Selected Applicant, as the case may be, for the Consultancy and the Authority

-- 5 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
vi RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
reserves the right to reject all or any of the Proposals without assigning any reasons
whatsoever.
The Applicant shall bear all its costs associated with or relating to the preparation and
submission of its Proposal including but not limited to preparation, copying, postage,
delivery fees, expenses associated with any demonstrations or presentations which may be
required by the Authority or any other costs incurred in connection with or relating to its
Proposal. All such costs and expenses will remain with the Applicant and the Authority shall
not be liable in any manner whatsoever for the same or for any other costs or other expenses
incurred by an Applicant in preparation or submission of the Proposal, regardless of the
conduct or outcome of the Selection Process.

-- 6 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
vii RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Glossary
Additional Costs As in Item H of Form-2 of Appendix-II
Agreement As defined in Schedule-2
Agreement Value As defined in Clause 6.1.2 of Schedule-2
Applicable Laws As defined in Schedule-2
Applicant As defined in Clause 2.1.1
Associate As defined in Clause 2.3.3
Authorised Representative As defined in Clause 2.13.3
Authority As defined in Clause 1.1.1
Bid Security As defined in Clause 2.20.1
Conditions of Eligibility As defined in Clause 2.2.1
Conflict of Interest As defined in Clause 2.3.1
Consultancy As defined in Clause 1.2
Consultancy and Service Agreement As defined in Clause 1.1.2
Consultancy Team As defined in Paragraph 7 of Schedule-1
Consultant As defined in Clause 1.2
CV Curriculum Vitae
DBOT Design, Build, Operate and Transfer
Deliverables As defined in Paragraphs 4.1 and 5.1 of Schedule-1
Documents As defined in Clause 2.12
Effective Date As defined in Clause 2.1 of Schedule-2
Eligible Assignments As defined in Clause 3.1.6
Expatriate Personnel As defined in Clause 1.1.1(i) of Schedule-2
Financial Proposal As defined in Clause 2.15.1
Form of Agreement Form of Agreement as in Schedule-2
INR, Re, Rs. Indian Rupee(s)
Key Date or KD As defined in Paragraph 6.1 of Schedule-1
Key Personnel As defined in Clause 2.1.4
Lead Member As defined in Clause 2.1.1
LOA Letter of Award
Member As defined in Clause 2.3.3 (a)
NDAP As defined in Clause 1.1.1
PMU As defined in Paragraph 9.1 of Schedule-1

-- 7 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
viii RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
PPP Public Private Partnership
Personnel As defined in Clause 1.1.1(n) of Schedule-2
Professional Personnel As defined in Clause 2.14.6
Prohibited Practices As defined in Clause 4.1
Project As defined in Clause 1.1.1
Project Director & Team Leader As defined in Clause 2.1.4
Proposal As defined in Clause 1.2
Proposal Due Date or PDD As defined in Clause 1.4
Resident Personnel As defined in Clause 1.1.1(o) of Schedule-2
RFP As defined in Disclaimer
Selected Applicant As defined in Clause 1.5
Selection Process As defined in Clause 1.5
Services As defined in Clause 1.1.1(q) of Schedule-2
Sole Firm As defined in Clause 2.1.1
Statement of Expenses As defined in Note 13, Form-2 of Appendix-II
Statutory Auditor An Auditor appointed under Applicable Laws
Sub-Consultant As defined in Clause 1.1.1(t) of Schedule-2
Support Personnel As defined in Clause 2.14.6
Technical Proposal As defined in Clause 2.14.1
TOR As defined in Clause 1.1.2
US$ United States Dollar
The words and expressions beginning with capital letters and defined in this document shall,
unless repugnant to the context, have the meaning ascribed thereto herein.

-- 8 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Invitation for Proposals

-- 9 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project

-- 10 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
3 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
1. INTRODUCTION*
1.1 Background
1.1.1 The President of India acting through the NITI Aayog and represented by the Chief
Executive Officer, NITI Aayog (the “Authority”) is engaged in the development,
operation and maintenance of the National Data and Analytics Platform (the
“NDAP”) and as part of this endeavour, the Authority has decided to undertake
the NDAP project (the “Project”) through Public Private Partnership (the “PPP”)
on Design, Build, Operate and Transfer (the "DBOT") basis.
1.1.2 With the view to implement the Project, the Authority had selected M/s OTSi
(Object Technology Solutions India Pvt. Ltd) through an open competitive
bidding for development, operation and maintenance of NDAP on DBOT basis.
The contract comes to an end in April, 2026. The Authority now has decided to
invite proposals for development, operation and maintenance of NDAP on DBOT
basis to a private entity (the “Consultant”) selected through a competitive bidding
process. The Project would be implemented in accordance with the terms and
conditions stated in the Terms of Reference specified at Schedule-1 (the “TOR”).
The Consultant shall enter into a consultancy and service agreement with the
Authority (the “Consultancy and Service Agreement”) as specified at Schedule-
2.
1.1.3 NDAP is an innovative initiative launched by NITI Aayog to streamline access to
published government data and facilitate evidence-based policymaking. NDAP
provides on a single platform datasets that are standardized, interoperable,
searchable and usable by a wide range of users including policymakers,
researchers, civil society, and the private sector.
1.1.4 NDAP has standardized datasets which are interoperable and using its “merge”
functionality upto 3 (three) datasets can be compared across sectors and ministries/
institutions on the platform, based on location and time granularity of the, enabling
users to conduct cross-sectoral analysis with ease. It provides granular data
coverage, from national-level aggregates down to districts, and even villages
where available, allowing for in-depth, localized insights. By providing data in
machine-readable formats, the platform ensures accessibility and ease of
integration for advanced analytics, research, and application development.
1.1.5 NDAP also presents interactive visualization tools, which allow users to explore
data through charts, maps, heatmaps, and other graphical formats without needing
*Instructions for Applicants
Note 1: Blank spaces contain formats that are to be used by the Applicant after the RFP is issued. (See
Appendix-III)
Note 2: Footnotes marked “$” in the relevant Clauses of the RFP and Schedules are for guidance of the
Applicants. In case of Appendices, the footnotes marked “$” or in other non-numerical characters shall be
omitted by the Applicants while submitting their respective Proposals. (See Appendix-III)

-- 11 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
4 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
external software. This includes visualization option available for merged datasets
on the platform itself. Users can also search, filter, and download datasets, making
it easy to extract information relevant to their specific research or operational
needs. The platform is designed with use-case-driven curation, ensuring that
datasets address practical requirements of government, academia, civil society,
and the private sector. The detailed architecture of NDAP is given in Appendix -
IV.
1.1.6 NDAP excelled at its core data management mission, including:
i. Data Centralization: Aggregating hundreds of datasets from various
central and state ministries into one place
ii. Standardization: This was a major achievement. All data was mapped to
common identifiers, chiefly the Local Government Directory (LGD)
codes, which made datasets interoperable for the first time.
iii. User friendly UI/UX: It provided a user-friendly search, a "Merge" tool to
combine different datasets (e.g., health and education), on the platform and
basic visualization features like charts and maps.
NDAP presently lacks in presenting advanced data analytical features. The platform
though provided data resources but lacked the necessary processing capability, preventing
policymakers from conducting statistical analysis, executing models, or simulating policy
outcomes directly. The "analytics" functionality was limited to basic visualization, forcing
users to download data and use external tools for comprehensive analysis. The platform's
architecture is not built to handle the "3 V's" (Volume, Velocity, Variety) of true big data
(e.g., MGNREGA, which involves millions of daily transactions; or the complete Census
with over a billion individual records). It also has limitations on accessibility by non-
sophisticated data users, thus making it difficult to access by policymakers with limited
time, since it required data science knowledge in order to separate insights from the data.
A huge quantum of government data is in the form of reports and documents. The platform
had no capability of ingesting this data. As the platform did not allow role-based access
control it did not have capability of ingesting private data.
1.1.7 Conceptualizing the next phase of NDAP
To conceptualize the advanced analytical layer on NDAP, the Authority decided
to undertake a Proof of Concept (POC) that inter alia included:
i A large-scale data ingestion: A total of over 100 GB of data was ingested.
This included 135,000+ unstructured documents (e.g., PDFs, reports,
totaling 507K+ pages) and 1,082 structured files (totaling over 3.4 billion
records).
ii Specialized Data Pipelines: Two dedicated specialized data pipelines were
built; one for handling unstructured content like documents and web text,
and another for ingesting structured official datasets and time-series data.
iii Core Platform Features: Some key user-facing features were developed.
This includes the "Drafting Studio" for AI-assisted writing and one-click
citations, as well as the ability to upload PDFs, download drafts as .docx,
embed live charts ("artefacts") in the editor, and manage collaboration
controls.

-- 12 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
5 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
The POC has proven the value of the "Reasoning Engine" concept, validating its
potential to reduce complex analysis cycles from "weeks to hours". By
successfully ingesting and harmonizing millions of data records and delivering a
functional "Data driven Policy Research Studio", the POC has demonstrated that
a Gen AI-powered system can provide tangible, high-value tools to policymakers,
thus fulfilling the objectives of NDAP.
1.2 Request for Proposals
The Authority invites proposals (the “Proposals”) for selection of a Consultant
(the “Consultant”) for undertaking the Project in conformity with the TOR
(collectively the “Consultancy”).
The Authority intends to select the Consultant through an open competitive
bidding process in accordance with the procedure set out herein.
1.3 Due diligence by Applicants
Applicants are encouraged to inform themselves fully about the assignment and
the local conditions before submitting the Proposal by paying a visit to the
Authority, sending written queries to the Authority, and attending a Pre-Proposal
Conference on the date and time specified in Clause 1.7.
1.4 Validity of the Proposal
The Proposal shall be valid for a period of not less than 90 days from the Proposal
Due Date (the “PDD”).
1.5 Brief description of the Selection Process
The Authority has adopted a two-stage selection process (collectively the
“Selection Process”) for evaluating the Proposals comprising technical and
financial bids to be submitted. In the first stage, a technical evaluation will be
carried out as specified in Clause 3.1. Based on this technical evaluation, a list of
short-listed applicants shall be prepared as specified in Clause 3.2. In the second
stage, a financial evaluation will be carried out as specified in Clause 3.3.
Proposals will finally be ranked according to their combined technical and
financial scores as specified in Clause 3.4. The first ranked Applicant shall be
selected for negotiation (the “Selected Applicant”) while the second ranked
Applicant will be kept in reserve.
1.6 Currency conversion rate and payment
1.6.1 For the purposes of technical evaluation of Applicants, Rs. 90 (Ninety) per US$
shall be considered as the applicable currency conversion rate. In case of any other
currency, the same shall first be converted to US$ as on the date, 60 (sixty) days
prior to the Proposal Due Date, and the amount so derived in US$ shall be
converted into INR at the aforesaid rate. The conversion rate of such currencies

-- 13 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
6 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
shall be the daily representative exchange rates published by the International
Monetary Fund for the relevant date.
1.6.2 All payments to the Consultant shall be made in INR in accordance with the
provisions of this RFP. The Consultant may convert INR into any foreign currency
as per Applicable Laws and the exchange risk, if any, shall be borne by the
Consultant.
1.7 Schedule of Selection Process
The Authority would endeavor to adhere to the following schedule:
S.
No.
Event Description Date
1 RFP Publish Date April 8, 2026
2 Pre-Proposal Conference- I (Walkthrough of NDAP
Portal)
April 17, 2026
3 Last date for receiving queries/clarifications April 23, 2026
4 Authority response to queries May 5, 2026
5 Proposal Due Date (PDD) May 22, 2026
At or before 12.00 PM
6 Opening of Proposals June 01,2026
7 Presentations for Technical Evaluation Within 15 days of PDD
8 Opening of Financial Proposals Within 30 days of PDD
9 Letter of Award (LOA) Within 45 days of PDD
10 Signing of Agreement Within 10 days of LOA
11 Validity of Applications 90 days of Proposal Due
Date
1.8 Pre-Proposal visit to the Site and inspection of data
Prospective Applicants may visit the office of the Nodal Officer and review the
available data at any time prior to PDD. For this purpose, they will provide at least
two days’ notice to the nodal officer specified below:
Mr. Jagvir Singh, Under Secretary,
NITI Aayog Sansad Marg, New Delhi-110001
Phone: 011-23042606
Email: jagvir.singh17@gov.in
1.9 Pre-Proposal Conference - I
The date, time and venue of Pre-Proposal Conference - I shall be:
Date: April 17, 2026
Time: 1100 hrs

-- 14 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
7 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Venue: Room 122, NITI Aayog, Sansad Marg, New Delhi 110001
1.10 Communications
1.10.1 All communications including the submission of Proposal should be addressed
to:
Mr. Jagvir Singh, Under Secretary, NITI Aayog
Room no. 307, Sansad Marg, New Delhi-110001
Phone: 011-23042606
Email: jagvir.singh17@gov.in
1.10.2 The RFP bid will be available on the CPPP Portal and the official website of
NITI Aayog.
1.10.3 All communications should contain the following information, to be marked at
the top in bold letters:
RFP Notice No. Consultant for NDAP
2. INSTRUCTIONS TO APPLICANTS
A. GENERAL
2.1 Scope of Proposal
2.1.1 Detailed description of the objectives, scope of services, Deliverables and other
requirements relating to this Consultancy are specified in this RFP. In case an
applicant firm possesses the requisite experience and capabilities required for
undertaking the Consultancy, it may participate in the Selection Process either
individually (the “Sole Firm”) or as lead member of a consortium of firms (the
“Lead Member”) in response to this invitation. The term applicant (the
“Applicant”) means the Sole Firm or the Lead Member, as the case may be. The
manner in which the Proposal is required to be submitted, evaluated and accepted
is explained in this RFP.
2.1.2 Applicants are advised that the selection of Consultant shall be on the basis of an
evaluation by the Authority through the Selection Process specified in this RFP.
Applicants shall be deemed to have understood and agreed that no explanation or
justification for any aspect of the Selection Process will be given and that the
Authority’s decisions are without any right of appeal whatsoever.

-- 15 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
8 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
2.1.3 The Applicant shall submit its Proposal in the form and manner specified in this
Part-2 of the RFP. The Technical proposal shall be submitted in the form at
Appendix-I and the Financial Proposal shall be submitted in the form at Appendix-
II. Upon selection, the Applicant shall be required to enter into an agreement with
the Authority in the form specified at Schedule-2.
2.1.4 Key Personnel
The Consultancy Team shall consist of the following key personnel (the “Key
Personnel”) who shall discharge their respective responsibilities as specified
below:
Role Responsibilities
Program Chairperson • Provide high-level guidance to research teams on
methodology, risks and long-term impact on system
design
• Steer the project’s strategic direction by shaping
priorities, reviewing key decisions, and refining the
overall approach
• He/she will spend at least 15 man-days per month
on the project until Go-Live of NDAP and 3 man-days
per month thereafter until project closure
Project Director &
Team Leader
• He/she will lead, co-ordinate and supervise the
Project.
• He/she will also be the nodal person responsible for
dealing with the Authority.
• Lead cross-team reviews to drive decisions and
maintain delivery velocity.
• Manage govt. stakeholder alignment, risks, and
dynamic escalations.
• He/she will spend at least 15 man-days per month on
the project until Go-Live of NDAP and 5 man-days per
month thereafter until project closure
Principal AI Architect • Oversee AI system design and integration of AI
services, reviewing architecture and resolving system-
level blockers
• Monitor system performance/cost and drive
improvements in reliability, scaling, and failover
• He/she will spend at least 15 man-days per month on
the project until Go-Live of NDAP and 5 man-days per
month thereafter until project closure
Principal Program
Manager
• Run PMO governance rhythms—tracking
milestones, risks, issues, and vendor performance
• Coordinate deployments, field trials, and audit-ready
documentation across agencies

-- 16 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
9 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
• He/she will spend at least 15 man-days per month on
the project until Go-Live of NDAP and 5 man-days
per month thereafter until project closure
Principal Product
Manager
• Conduct discovery with operators and translate
insights into clear product requirements and priorities
• Review usage/accuracy metrics and coordinate
iterative releases with engineering and research teams
• He/she will spend at least 15 man-days per month on
the project until Go-Live of NDAP and 5 man-days
per month thereafter until project closure
Data Scientist (AI and
Analytics)
• Develop and train AI models for multilingual search,
natural language query, auto-visualization, and
anomaly detection.
• Support analytics model development and data-
driven insights, refining features and ensuring
production grade performance
• He/she will spend at least 15 man-days per month on
the project until Go-Live of NDAP and 5 man-days
per month thereafter until project closure
Technical Lead • Architect and implement end-to-end visualisation
and self-serve analytics platform
• Establish analytical workflows, semantic layers, and
dashboard standards
• He/she will spend at least 15 man-days per month on
the project until Go-Live of NDAP and 5 man-days
per month thereafter until project closure
Usability Lead • Drive UX strategy to deliver an intuitive, operator-
friendly portal through structured testing and rapid
prototyping
• Drive and enforce UI/UX patterns and accessibility
standards to ensure seamless experience across
modules
• He/she will spend at least 15 man-days per month on
the project until Go-Live of NDAP and 5 man-days
per month thereafter until project closure
Full Stack Developer (AI
Integration)
• Develop and maintain front-end and back-end
components for AI interfaces
• Ensure seamless user experience and system
performance with stable integrations across systems
• He/she will spend at least 15 man-days per month on
the project until Go-Live of NDAP and 5 man-days
per month thereafter until project closure

-- 17 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
10 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
In addition to the 9(Nine) Key Personnel who would be evaluated, the
‘Professional Personnel’ of the team should also comprise of at least 1 (one)
Economist and 1 (one) Statistician who have experience with government datasets
(such as reports included in Indicative list at Attachment–I). However, these
personnel would not be evaluated. The Consultant is expected to deploy additional
resources required to implement this project within the timelines specified in this
RFP. However, these personnel would also not be evaluated. The tentative profiles
include, but are not limited to:
i. Enterprise Architect
ii. AI/ML Engineer/Developer
iii. Data Architect
iv. Microservice Architect
v. Network Architect
vi. Risk and Security Expert
vii. Database Administrator
viii. API Developer
ix. Full Stack Developer
x. UI/UX Designer
xi. QA Tester
xii. Business Intelligence Developer
xiii. Data Science Expert etc.
2.2 Conditions of Eligibility of Applicants
2.2.1 Applicants must read carefully the minimum conditions of eligibility (the
“Conditions of Eligibility”) provided herein. Proposals of only those Applicants
who satisfy the Conditions of Eligibility will be considered for evaluation.
2.2.2 To be eligible for evaluation of its Proposal, the Applicant shall fulfil the
following:
A. Technical Capacity: The Applicant shall have, over the past 5 (five) years preceding the
PDD, undertaken a minimum of 3 (three) Eligible Assignments as specified in Clause
3.1.6. This condition is exempted for the Applicants which are recognised as Startups by
Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT).
B. Financial Capacity: The Applicant shall have a minimum cumulative
revenue/ sales turnover / Project Contract Value (Awarded)/ Grants received
relating to the project of Rs.5 (five) crore from professional fees in the last 3
(three) financial years preceding the Proposal Due Date. For the purpose of
evaluation, Applicants having comparatively larger revenues from
professional fees shall be given added weightage. For the avoidance of doubt,
professional fees hereunder refers to fees received by the Applicant for
providing advisory or consultancy services, including software development

-- 18 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
11 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
services to its clients.
C. Availability of Key Personnel: The Applicant shall offer and make
available all Key Personnel meeting the requirements specified in Sub-
clause (D) below.
D. Conditions of Eligibility for Key Personnel:Each of the Key Personnel
must fulfil the Conditions of Eligibility specified below:
Key
Personnel
Educational
Qualification Length of
Professional
Experience
Experience on
Eligible Assignments
Program
Chairperson
Master’s in Computer
Science / AI / ML, or
related quantitative
disciplines
15 years • Internationally
recognized researcher
in generative AI/LLMs
• Experience in top-tier
industry research labs
and university faculty
roles
• Built consortia with
academia, hyperscalers,
chip vendors; secured
multi-crore
partnerships; briefed
senior government
leadership
Skills: international
thought leadership;
frontier-AI research
rigor; national-scale AI
project management
Project
Director &
Team Leader
Master’s in Engineering
/ Management / Public
Policy
10 years • Cross-functional
leader with roles in
technology / consulting
/ tech investing
• Track record in
conceptualizing &
delivering large
population-scale govt.
tech initiatives
Skills: program
governance; stakeholder
management; decision

-- 19 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
12 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
cadence under live
requirements
Principal AI
Architect
Master’s in Computer
Science/ IT/ AI/ ML, or
related field
10 years • Unified structured
/unstructured data for
resilient RAG
• Integrated AI services
with enterprise
/command systems via
secure gateways
Skills: platform
architecture;
reliability/cost trade-
offs; integration
leadership
Principal
Program
Manager
Bachelor’s or Master’s
in Engineering/
Management
7 years • Ran PMO for multi-
vendor, multi-year
govt. program
• Implemented risk
registers & escalation
and field rollouts
Skills: program
governance; change
management; executive
reporting
Principal
Product
Manager
Bachelor’s or Master’s
in Engineering/
Management
7 years • Launched operator-
facing applications
with 500+ active users
• Converted pilots to
stable roadmaps;
improved
accuracy/latency
Skills: product strategy,
metrics, user research
Data
Scientist (AI
and
Analytics)
Bachelor’s or Master’s
in Data Science/
Statistics/ Computer
Science, or related field
3-5 years • Built and deployed
ML/NLP or anomaly-
detection models
• Conducted data
analysis and feature
engineering for
production systems

-- 20 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
13 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
• Experience in Prompt
Engineering
Skills: Python, ML
Frameworks, Statistical
modelling
Technical
Lead
Bachelor’s or Master’s
in Data Science/
Analytics, or related
field
3-5 years • Designed dashboards
or self-serve analytics
platforms
• Implemented BI
pipelines/semantic
layers for large datasets
Skills: Analytics
architecture, Data
modelling, SQL
Usability
Lead
Bachelor’s or Master’s
in UX Design/
Interaction Design, or
related field
3-5 years • Designed user
journeys, prototypes,
and interactive flows
• Conducted usability
studies and delivered
UI/UX guidelines
• Experience in
conversational UX
Design.
• Responsible for
designing the persona
of the agent, defining
refusal behaviors
(how the AI politely
declines unsafe
queries), and ensuring
the explanation
mechanism is
intelligible to non-
technical users
Skills: UX research,
wireframing/prototyping
(Figma), accessibility
standards

-- 21 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
14 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Full Stack
Developer
(AI
Integration)
Bachelor’s or Master’s
in Computer Science,
IT, or related field
3-5 years • Developed full-stack
applications and APIs
for data-heavy platforms
• Integrated AI
components into
responsive web
interfaces
Skills: JavaScript, API
development, AI
integration
2.2.3 The Applicant shall enclose with its Proposal, certificate(s) from its Statutory
Auditors† stating its total/ cumulative revenues from professional fees during
each of the 3 (three) financial years preceding the PDD and the fee received in
respect of each of the Eligible Assignments specified in the Proposal. In the event
that the Applicant does not have a statutory auditor, it shall provide the requisite
certificate(s) from the firm of Chartered Accountants that ordinarily audits the
annual accounts of the Applicant. In case the applicant was incorporated after FY
2022-23, the Applicant may submit the certificate only for the applicable
financial years.
2.2.4 The Applicant should submit a Power of Attorney as per the format at Form-4 of
Appendix-I; provided, however, that such Power of Attorney would not be
required if the Application is signed by a partner of the Applicant, in case the
Applicant is a partnership firm or limited liability partnership.
2.2.5 Any entity which has been barred by the Central Government, any State
Government, a statutory authority or a public sector undertaking, as the case may
be, from participating in any project, and the bar subsists as on the date of
Proposal, would not be eligible to submit a Proposal either by itself or through its
Associate. The Applicant should submit a Declaration-Cum-Undertaking
Regarding Blacklisting/ Non-Blacklisting as per the format at Form-15 of
Appendix-I.
2.2.6 An Applicant or its Associate should have, during the last three years, neither
failed to perform on any agreement with a public authority, as evidenced by
imposition of a penalty by an arbitral or judicial authority or a judicial
pronouncement or arbitration award against the Applicant or its Associate, nor
been expelled from any project by a public authority or agreement nor have had
any such agreement terminated for breach by such Applicant or its Associate.
† No separate annual financial statements should be submitted.

-- 22 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
15 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
2.2.7 While submitting a Proposal, the Applicant should attach clearly marked and
referenced continuation sheets in the event that the space provided in the specified
forms in the Appendices is insufficient. Alternatively, Applicants may format the
specified forms making due provision for incorporation of the requested
information.
2.3 Conflict of Interest
2.3.1 An Applicant shall not have a conflict of interest that may affect the Selection
Process or the Consultancy (the “Conflict of Interest”). Any Applicant found to
have a Conflict of Interest shall be disqualified. In the event of disqualification,
the Authority shall forfeit and appropriate the Bid Security as mutually agreed
genuine pre-estimated compensation and damages payable to the Authority for,
inter alia, the time, cost and effort of the Authority including consideration of such
Applicant’s Proposal, without prejudice to any other right or remedy that may be
available to the Authority hereunder or otherwise.
2.3.2 The Authority requires that the Consultant provides professional, objective, and
impartial advice and at all times hold the Authority’s interests paramount, avoid
conflicts with other assignments or its own interests, and act without any
consideration for future work. The Consultant shall not accept or engage in any
assignment that would be in conflict with its prior or current obligations to other
clients, or that may place it in a position of not being able to carry out the
assignment in the best interests of the Authority.
2.3.3 Some guiding principles for identifying and addressing Conflicts of Interest have
been illustrated in the Guidance Note at Schedule-3. Without limiting the
generality of the above, an Applicant shall be deemed to have a Conflict of Interest
affecting the Selection Process, if:
(a) the Applicant, its consortium member (the “Member”) or Associate (or
any constituent thereof) and any other Applicant, its consortium member
or Associate (or any constituent thereof) have common controlling
shareholders or other ownership interest; provided that this
disqualification shall not apply in cases where the direct or indirect
shareholding or ownership interest of an Applicant, its Member or
Associate (or any shareholder thereof having a shareholding of more than
15% (fifteen per cent) of the paid up and subscribed share capital of such
Applicant, Member or Associate, as the case may be) in the other
Applicant, its consortium member or Associate is less than 15 (fifteen) per
cent of the subscribed and paid up equity share capital thereof; provided
further that this disqualification shall not apply to any ownership by a
bank, insurance company, pension fund or a public financial institution
referred to in sub-section (72) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013.
For the purposes of this Clause 2.3.3(a), indirect shareholding held through

-- 23 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
16 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
one or more intermediate persons shall be computed as follows: (aa) where
any intermediary is controlled by a person through management control or
otherwise, the entire shareholding held by such controlled intermediary in
any other person (the “Subject Person”) shall be taken into account for
computing the shareholding of such controlling person in the Subject
Person; and (bb) subject always to sub-clause (aa) above, where a person
does not exercise control over an intermediary, which has shareholding in
the Subject Person, the computation of indirect shareholding of such
person in the Subject Person shall be undertaken on a proportionate basis;
provided, however, that no such shareholding shall be reckoned under this
sub-clause (bb) if the shareholding of such person in the intermediary is
less than 26% (twenty six per cent) of the subscribed and paid up equity
shareholding of such intermediary; or
(b) a constituent of such Applicant is also a constituent of another Applicant;
or
(c) such Applicant or its Associate receives or has received any direct or
indirect subsidy or grant from any other Applicant or its Associate; or
(d) such Applicant has the same legal representative for purposes of this
Application as any other Applicant; or
(e) such Applicant has a relationship with another Applicant, directly or
through common third parties, that puts them in a position to have access
to each other’s information about, or to influence the Application of either
or each of the other Applicant; or
(f) there is a conflict among this and other consulting assignments of the
Applicant (including its personnel and Sub-consultant) and any
subsidiaries or entities controlled by such Applicant or having common
controlling shareholders. The duties of the Consultant will depend on the
circumstances of each case. While providing consultancy services to the
Authority for this particular assignment, the Consultant shall not take up
any assignment that by its nature will result in conflict with the present
assignment; or
(g) a firm which has been engaged by the Authority to provide goods or works
or services for a project, and its Associates, will be disqualified from
providing consulting services for the same project save and except as
provided in Clause 2.3.4; conversely, a firm hired to provide consulting
services for the preparation or implementation of a project, and its
Members or Associates, will be disqualified from subsequently providing
goods or works or services related to the same project; or
(h) the Applicant, its Member or Associate (or any constituent thereof), and
the bidder, Consultant or Concessionaire, if any, for the Project, its
contractor(s) or sub-contractor(s) (or any constituent thereof) have

-- 24 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
17 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
common controlling shareholders or other ownership interest; provided
that this disqualification shall not apply in cases where the direct or
indirect shareholding or ownership interest of an Applicant, its Member or
Associate (or any shareholder thereof having a shareholding of more than
5% (five per cent) of the paid up and subscribed share capital of such
Applicant, Member or Associate, as the case may be,) in the bidder,
Consultant or Concessionaire, if any, or its contractor(s) or
subcontractor(s) is less than 15% (fifteen per cent) of the paid up and
subscribed share capital of such Concessionaire or its contractor(s) or sub-
contractor(s); provided further that this disqualification shall not apply to
ownership by a bank, insurance company, pension fund or a Public
Financial Institution referred to in sub-section (72) of section 2 of the
Companies Act, 2013. For the purposes of this sub-clause (h), indirect
shareholding shall be computed in accordance with the provisions of
subclause (a) above.
For purposes of this RFP, Associate means, in relation to the Applicant, a person
who controls, is controlled by, or is under the common control with such
Applicant (the “Associate”). As used in this definition, the expression
“control” means, with respect to a person which is a company or corporation,
the ownership, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% (fifty per cent) of the
voting shares of such person, and with respect to a person which is not a
company or corporation, the power to direct the management and policies of
such person by operation of law or by contract.
2.3.4 An Applicant eventually appointed to provide Consultancy for this Project, and
its Associates, shall be disqualified from subsequently providing goods, works or
services related to the development and operation of the same Project and any
breach of this obligation shall be construed as Conflict of Interest; provided that
the restriction herein shall not apply after a period of 6 (six)years from the
completion of this assignment or to consulting assignments granted by banks/
lenders at any time; provided further that this restriction shall not apply to
consultancy/ advisory services performed for the Authority in continuation of this
Consultancy or to any subsequent consultancy/ advisory services performed for
the Authority in accordance with the rules of the Authority. For the avoidance of
doubt, an entity affiliated with the Consultant shall include a partner in the
Consultant’s firm or a person who holds more than 5% (five per cent) of the
subscribed and paid up share capital of the Consultant, as the case may be, and
any Associate thereof.
2.4 Number of Proposals
No Applicant or its Associate shall submit more than one Application for the
Consultancy. An Applicant applying individually or as an Associate shall not be
entitled to submit another application either individually or as a member of any
consortium, as the case may be.

-- 25 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
18 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
2.5 Cost of Proposal
The Applicants shall be responsible for all of the costs associated with the
preparation of their Proposals and their participation in the Selection Process
including subsequent negotiation and visits to the Authority. The Authority will
not be responsible or in any way liable for such costs, regardless of the conduct
or outcome of the Selection Process.
2.6 Verification of information
Applicants are encouraged to submit their respective Proposals after attending the
pre-proposal meeting and evaluating the sample data and use-cases or any other
matter considered relevant by them. Pre-Proposal Conference shall be organized
for the benefit of prospective Applicants on the date, time and venue as specified
in Clause 1.10.
2.7 Acknowledgement by Applicant
2.7.1 It shall be deemed that by submitting the Proposal, the Applicant has:
(a) made a complete and careful examination of the RFP;
(b) received all relevant information requested from the Authority;
(c) acknowledged and accepted the risk of inadequacy, error or mistake in the
information provided in the RFP or furnished by or on behalf of the
Authority or relating to any of the matters referred to in Clause 2.6 above;
(d) satisfied itself about all matters, things and information, including matters
referred to in Clause 2.6 herein above, necessary and required for submitting
an informed Application and performance of all of its obligations thereunder;
(e) acknowledged that it does not have a Conflict of Interest; and
(f) agreed to be bound by the undertaking provided by it under and in terms
hereof.
2.7.2 The Authority shall not be liable for any omission, mistake or error on the part of
the Applicant in respect of any of the above or on account of any matter or thing
arising out of or concerning or relating to RFP or the Selection Process, including
any error or mistake therein or in any information or data given by the Authority.
2.8 Right to reject any or all Proposals
2.8.1 Notwithstanding anything contained in this RFP, the Authority reserves the right
to accept or reject any Proposal and to annul the Selection Process and reject all
Proposals, at any time without any liability or any obligation for such acceptance,
rejection or annulment, and without assigning any reasons thereof.

-- 26 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
19 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
2.8.2 Without prejudice to the generality of Clause 2.8.1, the Authority reserves the right
to reject any Proposal if:
(a) at any time, a material misrepresentation is made or discovered, or
(b) the Applicant does not provide, within the time specified by the
Authority, the supplemental information sought by the Authority for
evaluation of the Proposal.
Misrepresentation/ improper response by the Applicant may lead to the
disqualification of the Applicant. If the Applicant is the Lead Member of a
consortium, then the entire consortium may be disqualified / rejected. If such
disqualification / rejection occurs after the Proposals have been opened and the
highest ranking Applicant gets disqualified / rejected, then the Authority reserves
the right to consider the next best Applicant, or take any other measure as may be
deemed fit in the sole discretion of the Authority, including annulment of the
Selection Process.

-- 27 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
20 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
B. DOCUMENTS
2.9 Contents of the RFP
This RFP comprises the Disclaimer set forth hereinabove, the contents as listed
below and will additionally include any Addendum / Amendment issued in
accordance with Clause 2.11:
Request for Proposal
1 Introduction
2 Instructions to Applicants
3 Criteria for Evaluation
4 Fraud and corrupt practices
5 Pre-Proposal Conference
6 Miscellaneous
Schedules
1 Terms of Reference
2 Form of Agreement
Annex-1: Terms of Reference
Annex-2: Deployment of Personnel
Annex-3: Estimate of Personnel Costs
Annex-4: Approved Sub-Consultant(s)
Annex-5: Cost of Services
Annex-6: Payment Schedule
Annex-7: Bank Guarantee for Performance Security
Annex-8: Service Level Agreement
3 Guidance Note on Conflict of Interest
Appendices
Appendix-I: Technical Proposal
Form-1: Letter of Proposal
Form-2: Particulars of the Applicant
Form-3: Statement of Legal Capacity
Form-4: Power of Attorney

-- 28 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
21 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Form-5: Financial Capacity of Applicant
Form-6: Particulars of Key Personnel
Form-7: Proposed Methodology and Work Plan
Form-8: Abstract of Eligible Assignments of Applicant
Form-9: Abstract of Eligible Assignments of Key Personnel
Form-10: Eligible Assignments of Applicant
Form-11: Eligible Assignments of Key Personnel
Form-12: Curriculum Vitae (CV) of Key Personnel
Form-13: Deployment of Personnel
Form-14: Proposal for Sub-Consultant(s)
Form-15: Declaration-Cum-Undertaking Regarding Blacklisting/ Non-
Blacklisting
Appendix–II: Financial Proposal
Form-1: Covering Letter
Form-2: Financial Proposal
Form-3: Estimate of Personnel Costs

-- 29 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
22 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
2.10 Clarifications
2.10.1 Applicants requiring any clarification on the RFP may send their queries to the
Authority on GEM portal or in writing by speed post/ courier/ special messenger
or by e-mail so as to reach before the date mentioned in the Schedule of Selection
Process at Clause 1.7. The envelopes shall clearly bear the following
identification:
"Queries concerning RFP for Consultant for NDAP"
The Authority shall endeavour to respond to the queries within the period
specified therein but not later than 7 (seven) days prior to the Proposal Due Date.
The Authority will post the reply to all such queries on the Official Website/GEM
portal without identifying the source of queries.
2.10.2 The Authority reserves the right not to respond to any questions or provide any
clarifications, in its sole discretion, and nothing in Clause 2.10 shall be construed
as obliging the Authority to respond to any question or to provide any clarification.
2.11 Amendment of RFP
2.11.1 At any time prior to the deadline for submission of Proposal, the Authority may,
for any reason, whether at its own initiative or in response to clarifications
requested by an Applicant, modify the RFP document by the issuance of
Addendum/ Amendment and posting it on CPPP Portal and the official website of
NITI Aayog.
2.11.2 In order to afford the Applicants a reasonable time for taking an amendment into
account, or for any other reason, the Authority may, in its sole discretion, extend
the Proposal Due Date‡.
‡ While extending the Proposal Due Date on account of an addendum, the Authority shall have due regard
for the time required by Applicants to address the amendments specified therein. In the case of significant
amendments, at least 15 (fifteen) days shall be provided between the date of amendment and the Proposal
Due Date, and in the case of minor amendments, at least 7 (seven) days shall be provided.

-- 30 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
23 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
C. PREPARATION AND SUBMISSION OF PROPOSAL
2.12 Language
The Proposal with all accompanying documents (the “Documents”) and all
communications in relation to or concerning the Selection Process shall be in
English language and strictly on the forms provided in this RFP. No supporting
document or printed literature shall be submitted with the Proposal unless
specifically asked for and in case any of these Documents is in another language,
it must be accompanied by an accurate translation of the relevant passages in
English, in which case, for all purposes of interpretation of the Proposal, the
translation in English shall prevail.
2.13 Format and signing of Proposal
2.13.1 The Applicant shall provide all the information sought under this RFP.
2.13.2 The Authority would evaluate only those Proposals that are received in the
specified forms and complete in all respects.
2.13.3 Bids along with all the scanned copies of the document should be submitted in the
electronic form only through the GeM e-tendering system before the PDD. Before
the bid documents are uploaded, all attached documents should be signed using
digital signatures of any of the following:
(a) by the proprietor, in case of a proprietary firm; or
(b) by a partner, in case of a partnership firm and/or a limited liability
partnership; or
(c) by a duly Authorised person holding the Power of Attorney, in case of a
Limited Company or a corporation; or
(d) by the Authorised Representative of the Lead Member, in case of
consortium.
A copy of the Power of Attorney certified under the hands of a partner or director
of the Applicant and notarised by a notary public in the form specified in
Appendix-I (Form-4) shall accompany the Proposal.
2.13.4 Applicants should note the Proposal Due Date, as specified in Clause 1.7, for
submission of Proposals. Except as specifically provided in this RFP, no
supplementary material will be entertained by the Authority, and that evaluation
will be carried out only on the basis of Documents received by the closing time of
Proposal Due Date as specified in Clause 2.17.1. Applicants will ordinarily not be
asked to provide additional material information or documents subsequent to the
date of submission, and unsolicited material if submitted will be summarily
rejected. For the avoidance of doubt, the Authority reserves the right to seek
clarifications under and in accordance with the provisions of Clause 2.24.

-- 31 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
24 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
2.13.5 The documents mentioned below shall be sent separately to the Authority in
original through Speed Post/Registered Post or delivered by hand to the person
specified in Tender Information Summary. Notarized Power of Attorney prior to
the award of contract and, Demand Draft/ Bank Guarantee (including e-Bank
Guarantee) towards Bid Security. Scanned copy of the same shall be uploaded on
the GeM portal. Hard copy of the same will have to be submitted directly to the
Authority not later than 5 (five) working days after the bid opening (Opening of
Technical Proposal date & time). Kindly note that, the proposal shall be rejected
if a hard copy of the Bid security is not submitted within 5 (five) working days
after the bid opening. However, the hard copy of Power of Attorney shall be
submitted prior to the award of contract. Startups as recognized by Department for
Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) are exempted from Bid Security
under point (b).
2.14 Technical Proposal
2.14.1 Applicants shall submit the technical proposal online on GEM Portal in the formats
at Appendix-I (the “Technical Proposal”).
2.14.2 While submitting the Technical Proposal, the Applicant shall, in particular, ensure
that:
(a) The Bid Security is provided;
(b) all forms are submitted in the prescribed formats and signed by the
prescribed signatories;
(c) Power of Attorney, if applicable, is executed as per Applicable Laws;
(d) CVs of all Professional Personnel have been included;
(e) Key Personnel have been proposed only if they meet the Conditions of
Eligibility laid down at Clause 2.2.2 (D) of the RFP;
(f) no alternative proposal for any Key Personnel is being made and only one
CV for each position has been furnished;
(g) the CVs have been recently signed and dated in blue ink by the respective
Personnel and countersigned by the Applicant. Photocopy or unsigned /
countersigned CVs shall be rejected;
(h) the CVs shall contain an undertaking from the respective Key Personnel
about his/her availability for the duration specified in the RFP;
(i) Professional Personnel proposed have good working knowledge of
English language;
(j) Key Personnel would be available for the period indicated in the TOR;

-- 32 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
25 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
(k) no Key Personnel should have attained the age of 75 (seventy five) years
at the time of submitting the proposal; and
(l) the proposal is responsive in terms of Clause 2.22.3.
2.14.3 Failure to comply with the requirements spelt out in this Clause 2.14 shall make
the Proposal liable to be rejected.
2.14.4 If an individual Key Personnel makes a false averment regarding his qualification,
experience or other particulars, or his commitment regarding availability for the
Project is not fulfilled at any stage after signing of the Agreement, he shall be
liable to be debarred for any future assignment of the Authority for a period of 5
(five) years. The award of this Consultancy to the Applicant may also be liable to
cancellation in such an event.
2.14.5 The Technical Proposal shall not include any financial information relating to the
Financial Proposal.
2.14.6 The proposed team shall be composed of experts and specialists (the
“Professional Personnel”) in their respective areas of expertise and
managerial/support staff (the “Support Personnel”) such that the Consultant
should be able to complete the Consultancy within the specified time schedule.
The Key Personnel specified in Clause 2.1.4 shall be included in the proposed
team of Professional Personnel. Other competent and experienced Professional
Personnel in the relevant areas of expertise must be added as required for
successful completion of this Consultancy. The CV of each such Professional
Personnel, if any, should also be submitted in the format at Form-12 of Appendix-
I.
2.14.7 An Applicant may, if it considers necessary, propose suitable Sub-Consultants in
specific areas of expertise. Credentials of such Sub-Consultants should be
submitted in Form-12 of Appendix-I. A Sub-Consultant, however, shall not be a
substitute for any Key Personnel.
2.14.8 The Authority reserves the right to verify all statements, information and
documents, submitted by the Applicant in response to the RFP. Any such
verification or the lack of such verification by the Authority to undertake such
verification shall not relieve the Applicant of its obligations or liabilities hereunder
nor will it affect any rights of the Authority thereunder.
2.14.9 In case it is found during the evaluation or at any time before signing of the
Agreement or after its execution and during the period of subsistence thereof, that
one or more of the eligibility conditions have not been met by the Applicant or the
Applicant has made material misrepresentation or has given any materially
incorrect or false information, the Applicant shall be disqualified forthwith if not
yet appointed as the Consultant either by issue of the LOA or entering into of the
Agreement, and if the Selected Applicant has already been issued the LOA or has
entered into the Agreement, as the case may be, the same shall, notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained therein or in this RFP, be liable to be terminated,

-- 33 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
26 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
2.14.10 by a communication in writing by the Authority without the Authority being liable
in any manner whatsoever to the Applicant or Consultant, as the case may be.
In such an event, the Authority shall forfeit and appropriate the Bid Security as
mutually agreed pre-estimated compensation and damages payable to the
Authority for, inter alia, time, cost and effort of the Authority, without prejudice
to any other right or remedy that may be available to the Authority.
2.15 Financial Proposal
2.15.1 Applicants shall submit the financial proposal online in the formats at Appendix-
II (the “Financial Proposal”) clearly indicating the total cost of the Consultancy
(Item G of Form-2 of Appendix-II) in both figures and words, in Indian Rupees,
and signed by the Applicant’s Authorised Representative. In the event of any
difference between figures and words, the amount indicated in words shall prevail.
In the event of a difference between the arithmetic total and the total shown in the
Financial Proposal, the lower of the two shall prevail.
2.15.2 While submitting the Financial Proposal, the Applicant shall ensure the following:
(a) All the costs associated with the assignment shall be included in the
Financial Proposal. These shall normally cover remuneration for all the
Personnel (Expatriate and Resident, in the field, office etc.),
accommodation, airfare, equipment, printing of documents etc. The total
amount indicated in the Financial Proposal shall be without any condition
attached or subject to any assumption and shall be final and binding. In
case any assumption or condition is indicated in the Financial Proposal, it
shall be considered non-responsive and liable to be rejected.
(b) The Financial Proposal shall take into account all expenses and tax
liabilities. For the avoidance of doubt, it is clarified that all taxes shall be
deemed to be included in the costs shown under different items of the
Financial Proposal. Further, all payments shall be subject to deduction of
taxes at source as per Applicable Laws.
(c) Costs (including breakdown of costs) shall be expressed in INR.
2.16 Submission of Proposal/ebid
2.16.1 The Applicants shall submit the Proposal on GEM portal with all pages numbered
serially and by giving an index of submissions. Each page of the submission shall
be initialled by the Authorised Representative of the Applicant as per the terms of
the RFP. In case the proposal is submitted on the document downloaded from
Official Website, the Applicant shall be responsible for its accuracy and
correctness as per the version uploaded by the Authority and shall ensure that there
are no changes caused in the content of the downloaded document. In case of any
discrepancy between the downloaded or photocopied version of the RFP and the
original RFP issued by the Authority, the latter shall prevail.

-- 34 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
27 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
2.16.2 The proposal should be submitted online on the GeM Portal only;
manual/offline bids shall not be accepted under any circumstances. Also, the
applicant will have to send the original hard copy of Bid Security or Bid
Security Declaration and Notarized Power of Attorney separately as specified
in clause 2.13.5.
2.16.3 The Technical and Financial bids must be submitted separately on GeM Portal
in their respective folders/options, one clearly marked “Technical Proposal”
and the other clearly marked “Financial Proposal’. If financial proposal is
included in the folder/option of technical proposal, the bid will be summarily
rejected. The folder marked ―Technical Proposal shall contain: Application
in the prescribed format (Form-1 of Appendix-I) along with Forms 2 to 14 of
Appendix-I and supporting documents; and Scanned copy of Bid Security as
specified in Clause 2.20.1 For the Applicants which are recognised as Startups
by Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), the
condition (ii) stated above is relaxed. The folder marked ―Financial Proposal
shall contain the Financial Proposal in the prescribed format (Forms 1, 2 & 3
of Appendix-II).
2.16.4 The Technical Proposal and Financial Proposal shall be typed or written in
indelible ink and signed by the Authorised Representative of the Applicant.
All pages of the original Technical Proposal and Financial Proposal must be
numbered and initialed by the person or persons signing the Proposal.
2.16.5 The completed Proposal must be submitted online on or before the specified
time on Proposal Due Date Proposals submitted by fax, telex, telegram or e-
mail shall not be entertained.
2.16.6 The Proposal shall be made in the Forms specified in this RFP. Any attachment
to such Forms must be provided on separate and only information that is
directly relevant should be provided. No separate documents like printed
annual statements, company brochures, copy of contracts etc. will be
entertained.
2.16.7 The rates quoted shall be firm throughout the period of performance of the
assignment upto discharge of all obligations of the Consultant under the
Agreement.
2.17 Proposal Due Date
2.17.1 Proposal should be submitted at or before 1200 hrs on the Proposal Due Date
specified in Clause 1.7 in the manner and form as detailed in this RFP. A receipt
thereof should be obtained from the person specified therein.
2.17.2 The Authority may, in its sole discretion, extend the Proposal Due Date by issuing
an Addendum in accordance with Clause 2.11 uniformly for all Applicants.

-- 35 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
28 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
2.18 Late Proposals
Proposals received by the Authority after the specified time on Proposal Due Date
shall not be eligible for consideration and shall be summarily rejected.
2.19 Modification/ substitution/ withdrawal of Proposals
2.19.1 No Proposal shall be modified, substituted, or withdrawn by the Applicant on or
after the Proposal Due Date.
2.19.2 Any alteration / modification in the Proposal or additional information or material
supplied subsequent to the Proposal Due Date, unless the same has been expressly
sought for by the Authority, shall be disregarded.
2.20 Bid Security
2.20.1 The Applicant shall furnish as part of its Proposal, a bid security of Rs.
1,40,00,000 (Rupees One Crore and Forty Lakh only) in the form of a Demand
Draft/ Bank Guarantee (including e-Bank Guarantee) issued by one of the
Nationalised/ Scheduled Banks in India in favour of the Pay and Account officer,
NITI Aayog payable at New Delhi (the “Bid Security”), returnable not later than
30 (thirty) days from PDD except in case of the two highest ranked Applicants as
required in Clause 2.25.1. The Applicants which are Micro and Small Enterprises
(MSEs) as defined in MSE Procurement Policy issued by Department of Micro,
Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) or are registered with the Central
Purchase Organisation or the concerned Ministry or Department and Startups
recognised by Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT),
are exempted from furnishing the bid security. In the event that the first ranked
Applicant commences the assignment as required in Clause 2.30, the second
ranked Applicant, who has been kept in reserve, shall be returned its Bid Security
forthwith, but in no case later than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days from PDD.
The Selected Applicant’s Bid Security shall be returned, upon the Applicant
signing the Agreement and completing the Deliverables assigned to it for the first
2 (two) months of the Consultancy in accordance with the provisions there of.
2.20.2 Any Bid not accompanied by the Bid Security shall be rejected by the Authority
as non-responsive.
2.20.3 The Authority shall not be liable to pay any interest on the Bid Security and the
same shall be interest free.
2.20.4 The Applicant, by submitting its Application pursuant to this RFP, shall be deemed
to have acknowledged that without prejudice to the Authority’s any
other right or remedy hereunder or in law or otherwise, the Bid Security shall be
forfeited and appropriated by the Authority as the mutually agreed pre-estimated
compensation and damage payable to the Authority for, inter alia, the time, cost
and effort of the Authority in regard to the RFP including the consideration and
evaluation of the Proposal under the following conditions:
(a) If an Applicant submits a non-responsive Proposal;

-- 36 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
29 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
(b) If an Applicant engages in any of the Prohibited Practices specified in
Section 4 of this RFP;
(c) If an Applicant withdraws its Proposal during the period of its validity as
specified in this RFP and as extended by the Applicant from time to time;
(d) In the case of the Selected Applicant, if the Applicant fails to reconfirm its
commitments during negotiations as required vide Clause 2.25.1;
(e) In the case of a Selected Applicant, if the Applicant fails to sign the
Agreement or commence the assignment as specified in Clauses 2.29 and
2.30 respectively; or
(f) If the Applicant is found to have a Conflict of Interest as specified in
Clause 2.3.
2.21 Performance Security
2.21.1 The Applicant, by submitting its Application pursuant to this RFP, shall be deemed
to have acknowledged that without prejudice to the Authority’s any other right or
remedy hereunder or in law or otherwise, its Performance Security shall be
forfeited and appropriated by the Authority as the mutually agreed pre estimated
compensation and damages payable to the Authority for, inter alia, the time, cost
and effort of the Authority in regard to the RFP, including the consideration and
evaluation of the Proposal, under the following conditions:
(a) If an Applicant engages in any of the Prohibited Practices specified in Clause
4.1 of this RFP;
(b) if the Applicant is found to have a Conflict of Interest as specified in Clause
2.3; and
(c) if the Selected Applicant commits a breach of the Agreement.
2.21.2 An amount equal to 5% (five per cent) of the Agreement Value shall be deemed to
be the Performance Security for the purposes of this Clause 2.21, which may be
forfeited and appropriated in accordance with the provisions hereof.

-- 37 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
30 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
D. EVALUATION PROCESS
2.22 Evaluation of Proposals
2.22.1 The Authority shall open the Proposals at 1230 hours on June 01, 2026 via online
bid opening. The folder of Technical Proposal shall be opened first. The folder of
Financial Proposal shall be kept locked for opening at a later date.
2.22.2 Proposals withdrawn before PDD shall not be opened.
2.22.3 Prior to evaluation of Proposals, the Authority will determine whether each
Proposal is responsive to the requirements of the RFP. The Authority may, in its
sole discretion, reject any Proposal that is not responsive hereunder. A Proposal
shall be considered responsive only if:
(a) the Technical Proposal is received in the form specified at Appendix-I;
(b) it is received by the Proposal Due Date including any extension thereof
pursuant to Clause 2.17;
(c) it is accompanied by the Bid Security as specified in Clause 2.20.1.
(d) it is digitally signed numbered and submitted as stipulated in Clauses
2.13.
(e) it is accompanied by the Power of Attorney as specified in Clause 2.2.4;
(f) it contains all the information (complete in all respects) as requested in the
RFP;
(g) it does not contain any condition or qualification; and
(h) it is not non-responsive in terms hereof.
2.22.4 The Authority reserves the right to reject any Proposal which is non-responsive
and no request for alteration, modification, substitution or withdrawal shall be
entertained by the Authority in respect of such Proposals.
2.22.5 The Authority shall subsequently examine and evaluate Proposals in accordance
with the Selection Process specified at Clause 1.5 and the criteria set out in Section
3 of this RFP.
2.22.6 After the technical evaluation, the Authority shall prepare a list of pre-qualified
and shortlisted Applicants in terms of Clause 3.2 for opening of their Financial
Proposals. A date, time and venue will be notified to all Applicants for announcing
the result of evaluation and opening of Financial Proposals. Before opening of the
Financial Proposals, the list of pre-qualified and shortlisted

-- 38 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
31 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Applicants along with their Technical Score will be read out. The opening of
Financial Proposals shall be done in presence of respective representatives of
Applicants who choose to be present. The Authority will not entertain any query
or clarification from Applicants who fail to qualify at any stage of the Selection
Process. The financial evaluation and final ranking of the Proposals shall be
carried out in terms of Clauses 3.3 and 3.4.
2.22.7 Applicants are advised that Selection shall be entirely at the discretion of the
Authority. Applicants shall be deemed to have understood and agreed that the
Authority shall not be required to provide any explanation or justification in
respect of any aspect of the Selection Process or Selection.
2.22.8 Any information contained in the Proposal shall not in any way be construed as
binding on the Authority, its agents, successors or assigns, but shall be binding
against the Applicant if the Consultancy is subsequently awarded to it.
2.23 Confidentiality
Information relating to the examination, clarification, evaluation, and
recommendation for the selection of Applicants shall not be disclosed to any
person who is not officially concerned with the process or is not a retained
professional adviser advising the Authority in relation to matters arising out of, or
concerning the Selection Process. The Authority shall treat all information,
submitted as part of the Proposal, in confidence and shall require all those who
have access to such material to treat the same in confidence. The Authority may
not divulge any such information unless it is directed to do so by any statutory
entity that has the power under law to require its disclosure or is to enforce or
assert any right or privilege of the statutory entity and/or the Authority or as may
be required by law or in connection with any legal process.
2.24 Clarifications
2.24.1 To facilitate evaluation of Proposals, the Authority may, at its sole discretion, seek
clarifications from any Applicant regarding its Proposal. Such clarification(s) shall
be provided within the time specified by the Authority for this purpose. Any
request for clarification(s) and all clarification(s) in response thereto shall be in
writing.
2.24.2 If an Applicant does not provide clarifications sought under Clause 2.24.1 above
within the specified time, its Proposal shall be liable to be rejected. In case the
Proposal is not rejected, the Authority may proceed to evaluate the Proposal by
construing the particulars requiring clarification to the best of its understanding,
and the Applicant shall be barred from subsequently questioning such
interpretation of the Authority.

-- 39 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
32 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
E. APPOINTMENT OF CONSULTANT
2.25 Negotiations
2.25.1 The Selected Applicant may, if necessary, be invited for negotiations. The
negotiations shall generally not be for reducing the price of the Proposal, but will
be for re-confirming the obligations of the Consultant under this RFP. Issues such
as deployment of Key Personnel, understanding of the RFP, methodology and
quality of the work plan shall be discussed during negotiations. A Key Personnel
who did not score 60% (sixty per cent) marks as required under Clause 3.1.2 shall
be replaced by the Applicant with a better candidate to the satisfaction of the
Authority. In case the Selected Applicant fails to reconfirm its commitment, the
Authority reserves the right to designate the next ranked Applicant as the Selected
Applicant and invite it for negotiations.
2.25.2 The Authority will examine the CVs of all other Professional Personnel and those
not found suitable shall be replaced by the Applicant to the satisfaction of the
Authority.
2.25.3 The Authority will examine the credentials of all Sub-Consultants proposed for this
Consultancy and those not found suitable shall be replaced by the Applicant to the
satisfaction of the Authority.
2.26 Substitution of Key Personnel
2.26.1 The Authority will not normally consider any request of the Selected Applicant for
substitution of Key Personnel as the ranking of the Applicant is based on the
evaluation of Key Personnel and any change therein may upset the ranking.
Substitution will, however, be permitted if the Key Personnel is not available for
reasons of any incapacity or due to health, subject to equally or better qualified
and experienced personnel being provided to the satisfaction of the Authority.
2.26.2 The Authority expects all the Key Personnel to be available during
implementation of the Agreement. The Authority will not consider substitution of
Key Personnel except for reasons of any incapacity or due to health. Such
substitution shall ordinarily be limited to one Key Personnel subject to equally or
better qualified and experienced personnel being provided to the satisfaction of
the Authority. As a condition to such substitution, a sum equal to 15% (fifteen per
cent) of the remuneration specified for the original Key Personnel shall be
deducted from the payments due to the Consultant. In the case of a second or third
substitution hereunder, such deduction shall be 30% (thirty per cent) of the
remuneration specified for the original Key Personnel. Any further substitution
may lead to disqualification of the Applicant or termination of the Agreement.
Provided, however, that for and in respect of any such substitution during the
Operations Phase, the aforesaid deduction shall be reduced to one half thereof.
2.26.3 Substitution of the Project Director & Team Leader will not normally be
considered and may lead to disqualification of the Applicant or termination of the
Agreement.

-- 40 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
33 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
2.27 Indemnity
The Consultant shall, subject to the provisions of the Agreement, indemnify the
Authority for an amount equivalent to the value of the Agreement for any direct
loss or damage that is caused due to any deficiency in services.
2.28 Award of Consultancy
After selection, a Letter of Award (the “LOA”) shall be issued, in duplicate, by
the Authority to the Selected Applicant and the Selected Applicant shall, within 7
(seven) days of the receipt of the LOA, sign and return the duplicate copy of the
LOA in acknowledgement thereof. In the event the duplicate copy of the LOA
duly signed by the Selected Applicant is not received by the stipulated date, the
Authority may, unless it consents to extension of time for submission thereof,
appropriate the Bid Security of such Applicant as mutually agreed genuine pre-
estimated loss and damage suffered by the Authority on account of failure of the
Selected Applicant to acknowledge the LOA, and the next highest ranking
Applicant may be considered.
2.29 Execution of Agreement
After acknowledgement of the LOA as aforesaid by the Selected Applicant, it shall
execute the Agreement within the period prescribed in Clause 1.7. The Selected
Applicant shall not be entitled to seek any deviation in the Agreement.
2.30 Commencement of assignment
The Consultant shall commence the Services within 7 (seven) days of the date of
the Agreement, or such other date as may be mutually agreed. If the Consultant
fails to either sign the Agreement as specified in Clause 2.29 or commence the
assignment as specified herein, the Authority may invite the second ranked
Applicant for negotiations. In such an event, the Bid Security of the first ranked
Applicant shall be forfeited and appropriated in accordance with the provisions of
Clause 2.20.4.
2.31 Proprietary data
Subject to the provisions of Clause 2.23, all documents and other information
provided by the Authority or submitted by an Applicant to the Authority shall
remain or become the property of the Authority. Applicants and the Consultant, as
the case may be, are to treat all information as strictly confidential. The Authority
will not return any Proposal or any information related thereto. All information
collected, analysed, processed or in whatever manner provided by the Consultant
to the Authority in relation to the Consultancy shall be the property of the
Authority.

-- 41 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
34 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
3. CRITERIA FOR EVALUATION
3.1 Evaluation of Technical Proposals
3.1.1 In the first stage, the Technical Proposal will be evaluated on the basis of
Applicant’s experience, its understanding of TOR, proposed methodology and
Work Plan, and the experience of Key Personnel. Only those Applicants whose
Technical Proposals get a score of 60 (sixty) marks or more out of 100 (one
hundred) shall qualify for further consideration and shall be ranked from highest
to the lowest on the basis of their technical score (ST).
3.1.2 Each Key Personnel must score a minimum of 60% (sixty per cent) marks except
as provided herein. A Proposal shall be rejected if the Project Director & Team
Leader scores less than 60% (sixty per cent) marks or any two of the remaining
Key Personnel score less than 60% (sixty per cent) marks. In case the Selected
Applicant has one Key Personnel, other than the Project Director & Team Leader,
who scores less than 60% marks, he would have to be replaced during
negotiations, with a better candidate who, in the opinion of the Authority, would
score 60% (sixty per cent) or above.
3.1.3 The scoring criteria to be used for evaluation shall be as follows.
Item
Code
Parameter Maximum
Marks
Criteria Supporting Documents
1. Relevant
Experience
of the
Applicant
30 30% of the
maximum
marks shall
be awarded
for the
number of
Eligible
Assignments
undertaken
by the
Applicant
firm. For the
Applicants
which are
recognised as
Startups by
Department
for Promotion
of Industry
and Internal
Trade
(DPIIT), this
condition is
relaxed and
• Assignments as per format
specified in Form 9
Appendix I
• Abstract of Assignments
as per format specified in
Form 8 Appendix I
• Work Order + Completion
Certificate/ Partial
Completion Certificate
mentioning Project Scope,
Approved Deliverables and
Payment realized from the
client
OR
Work Order + Certificate
from Statutory Auditor
mentioning Project Scope,
Approved Deliverables and

-- 42 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
35 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
reads as
follows: 30%
of the
maximum
marks shall be
awarded for 3
or more
number of
Eligible
Assignments
undertaken by
the Applicant
firm; and the
Applicants
with fewer
than three
Eligible
Assignments
receive
proportionate
marks.
The
remaining
70% shall be
awarded for:
(i) the
comparative
size, quality
and
complexity
of Eligible
Assignments;
(ii) other

-- 43 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
36 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
relevant
assignments
or similar
work; and
(iii) overall
turnover, and
capacity of
the firm.
Payment realized from the
client
OR
Work Order + Certificate
from Statutory Auditor
mentioning Project Scope &
Approved Deliverables +
CA Certificate for Payment
realized from the client
• Certificate by the Statutory
Auditor for value (in INR) of
projects carried out in other
countries.
• In case the bidder was
incorporated after FY
2022-23, the bidder may
submit the relevant
certificate only for the
applicable financial years.
2. Proposed
Methodology
and
Work Plan
20 Evaluation
will be based
on the
presentation
to be made by
the
Applicants
covering the
overview of
the process,
approach,
solution
proposed with
technology
stack
proposed.
There will be
emphasis on
the proposed
methodology
and work
plan for the
Technical Proposal
Document and Presentation
along with PoC.

-- 44 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
37 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
project along
with the
Proof of
Concept
(PoC)
presented For
further
details on the
presentation
and PoC,
refer to
Section 3.1.5.
3. Relevant
Experience
of the Key
Personnel
50 30% of the
maximum
marks for
each Key
Personnel
shall be
awarded for
the number
of Eligible
Assignments
the
respective
Key
Personnel
has worked
on. For the
Applicants
which are
recognised as
Startups by
Department for
Promotion of
Industry and
Internal Trade
(DPIIT), this
condition is
relaxed and
reads as
follows: 30% of
the maximum
marks shall be
awarded for 3 or
more number of
Eligible
Assignments
undertaken by
the Key
Personnel; and
Curriculum Vitae (CV) of
Key Personnel as per Form
10 Appendix I.

-- 45 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
38 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
the Key
personnel with
fewer than three
Eligible
Assignments
receive
proportionate
marks.
The
remaining
70% shall be
awarded for:
(i) the
comparative
size and
quality of
Eligible
Assignments;
and
(ii) other
relevant
assignments
or similar
work in IT
sector.
3(a) Program
Chairperson
6

-- 46 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
39 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
3 (b) Project
Director &
Team Leader
6
3 (c)
Principal AI
Architect 6
3 (d)
Principal
Product
Manager 6
3 (e) Principal
Program
Manager
6
3 (f)
Data Scientist
(AI &
Analytics) 5
3 (g) Technical Lead 5
3 (h) Usability Lead 5
3 (i)
Full-stack
Developer (AI
Integration) 5
Grand Total 100
3.1.4 While awarding marks for the number of Eligible Projects, the Applicant or Key
Personnel, as the case may be, that has undertaken the highest number of Eligible
Assignments shall be entitled to the maximum score for the respective category
and all other competing Applicants or respective Key Personnel, as the case may
be, shall be entitled to a proportionate score.
3.1.5 The Authority would invite each shortlisted Applicant to make a presentation to
demonstrate its understanding of the assignment, and its proposed approach,
development methodology, architecture, key features and work plan. The
presentation should preferably be made by the proposed Key Personnel. The
presentation should inter alia demonstrate a maximum of 3 similar live projects
undertaken by the Applicant in the last 5 years and a working prototype of an
existing, live solution (PoC) that is similar to the NDAP requirement as specified
in the TOR. This PoC is to ensure that the system deployed under this project can
deliver reliable multi-step reasoning, multi-turn AI, numerical analysis, and cross-

-- 47 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
40 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
document synthesis, Applicants must demonstrate model performance on the
internationally recognised benchmarks. This benchmark is relevant for systems
combining structured data (tables) with unstructured text and shall be showcased
during the presentation. This PoC should also showcase AI governance
mechanisms, audit logging, and citation mechanisms. Some of the critical
requirements include ability to demonstrate agentic orchestrator (deterministic,
multi-tool, enterprise-grade orchestration layer). The minimum key features to
be included in the PoC are:
a. Semantic intent understanding: Interprets natural- language queries,
identifies the underlying analytical task, and maps them to the correct
workflow template.
b. Deterministic task execution: Executes every step in a predictable, rule-
bound, and auditable manner so that identical inputs and parameters
always produce identical outputs—unlike probabilistic planner agents.
c. Stateful code-execution engine (autoscaling to 100 concurrent
sessions): Provides a scalable execution environment that maintains state
across steps, supports long-running analytical tasks, and autos-scales to
handle large user loads without performance degradation.
d. Secure, sandboxed execution with enterprise guardrails: All code
execution happens in an isolated sandbox with built-in OS-level
protections that prevent print-injection, remote-code-execution attacks,
and unauthorized system access.
e. Workflow composition: Breaks down complex queries into ordered steps
(retrieval → transformation → analysis → synthesis), executing them
sequentially or in parallel with full determinism.
f. Tool and model prioritisation: Selects and sequences the appropriate
models, analytical utilities, and datasets for each step, instead of relying
on a monolithic or autonomous agent.
g. Recursive reasoning & causal, deep analytics: Iteratively revisits
intermediate outputs, performs causal inference and driver analysis, and
surfaces deeper insights about why patterns occur—not just what
happened.
h. Shared filesystem for multi-agent coordination: All components
operate over a secure, auto scalable shared filesystem, allowing agents and
tools to exchange intermediate artefacts, logs, and datasets safely and
efficiently.
i. End-to-end traceability: Maintains full logs, intermediate results,
citations, and execution traces for auditability, reproducibility, and
compliance.

-- 48 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
41 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
The number of slides in the PowerPoint presentation should not exceed 50 and the
presentation along with POC should ideally not exceed 60 minutes.
3.1.6 Eligible Assignments
For the purposes of determining conditions of Eligibility and for evaluating the
Proposals under this RFP, advisory/ consultancy/service assignments in respect of
the following projects shall be deemed as eligible assignments (the “Eligible
Assignments”):
(a) Assignment involving intuitive and easily navigable live web/app interface
post user testing phase with 500+ active users viewing end user facing interactive
reports with backend consisting of data warehousing from 1TB+ high data
volumes; or
(b) Assignment involving mining and natural language processing based
search on 1TB+ high data with interactive visualization to showcase the results;
or
(c) Assignment involving extraction of large amounts of semi-structured data
and its processing into machine readable formats with semantic classification of
data points into a common scheme.
(d) The following parameters need to be specifically highlighted in the
Assignments:
Topic Parameters
Citizen-Facing Advanced
Analytics & Generative-
AI Applications
Production deployment of Agentic AI-based citizen
service applications with > 10000 MAUs (only
interactions with LLMs to be counted)
Support for Multi-lingual applications.
Web search integration and real-time information
retrieval
Advanced Deep Research
Applications
AI copilot systems with large dataset (scale of
unstructured documents > 2L and > 75 GB- scanned or
machine readable) analysis
Agent Development and
Production Experience
Number of production agent systems deployed and
their complexity (with 5+ actions per agent)
Comprehensive and automated (can process batches of
evals) agent performance evaluation and alerting
systems with LLM-as-a-Judge
Automated optimisation of agentic workflow as well as
prompts based on evals
Infrastructure scale,
model alignment and data
auditability

-- 49 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
42 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Document Processing
and Understanding
OCR capabilities for multi-format documents with high
accuracy across languages (unstructured PDFs, charts,
tables in excel format, tables in PDF format, structured
copies)
Smart chunking, parsing, and embedding models for
improved retrieval accuracy, Multi-modal document
processing: PDF, images, tables, forms across 10M+
documents
Ability to execute dynamically generated code in a
sandboxed environment by multiple AI agents while
maintaining sandbox state across agents
Performance on document QA benchmarks (DocVQA
>70%, InfoVQA >65%, ChartQA >60%)
3.2 Short-listing of Applicants
Of the Applicants ranked as aforesaid, not more than 5 (five) shall be prequalified
and short-listed for financial evaluation in the second stage. However, if the
number of such pre-qualified Applicants is less than two, the Authority may, in its
sole discretion, pre-qualify the Applicant(s) whose technical score is less than 60
(sixty) points even if such Applicant(s) do(es) not qualify in terms of Clause 3.1.2;
provided that in such an event, the total number of pre-qualified and short-listed
Applicants shall not exceed two.
3.3 Evaluation of Financial Proposal
3.3.1 In the second stage, the financial evaluation will be carried out as per this Clause
3.3. Each Financial Proposal will be assigned a financial score (SF).
3.3.2 For financial evaluation, the total cost indicated in the Financial Proposal,
excluding Additional Costs, will be considered. The additional Costs shall include
items specified as such in Form-2 of Appendix-II.
3.3.3 As a part of Financial Proposal, the Applicant is required to provide the pricing
for query inferencing, calculated for an estimated volume of approximately 6000
complex queries. A complex query is defined as any user query that requires the
system to combine and analyze multiple kinds of features—such as Multi Step
Reasoning & Orchestration, Cross‑Sectoral Integration / Analysis, Unstructured +
Structured Data Synthesis, Causal / Predictive Analysis Leading to
Recommendations and Spatio Temporal Harmonization. A query shall qualify as
“complex” when it involves minimum of three out of five of these features. For
planning and service expectations, such complex queries should be designed to
complete within approximately ten minutes so that users receive timely insights
without compromising depth or quality. The Applicant shall clearly specify the
cost per query in Form-2 of Appendix-II.

-- 50 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
43 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
3.3.4 The Authority will determine whether the Financial Proposals are complete,
unqualified and unconditional. The cost indicated in the Financial Proposal shall
be deemed as final and reflecting the total cost of services. Omissions, if any, in
costing any item shall not entitle the firm to be compensated and the liability to
fulfil its obligations as per the TOR within the total quoted price shall be that of
the Consultant. The lowest Financial Proposal (FM) will be given a financial score
(SF) of 100 points. The financial scores of other Proposals will be computed as
follows:
SF = 100 x FM/F
(F = amount of Financial Proposal)
3.4 Combined and final evaluation
3.4.1 Proposals will finally be ranked according to their combined technical (ST) and
financial (SF) scores as follows:
S = ST x Tw + SF x Fw
Where S is the combined score, and Tw and Fw are weights assigned to Technical
Proposal and Financial Proposal, which shall be 0.80 and 0.20 respectively.
3.4.2 The Selected Applicant shall be the first ranked Applicant (having the highest
combined score). The second ranked Applicant shall be kept in reserve and may
be invited for negotiations in case the first ranked Applicant withdraws, or fails to
comply with the requirements specified in Clauses 2.25, 2.29 and 2.30, as the case
may be.

-- 51 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
44 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
4. FRAUD AND CORRUPT PRACTICES
4.1 The Applicants and their respective officers, employees, agents and advisers shall
observe the highest standard of ethics during the Selection Process.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this RFP, the Authority
shall reject a Proposal without being liable in any manner whatsoever to the
Applicant, if it determines that the Applicant has, directly or indirectly or through
an agent, engaged in corrupt practice, fraudulent practice, coercive practice,
undesirable practice or restrictive practice (collectively the “Prohibited Practices”)
in the Selection Process. In such an event, the Authority shall, without prejudice
to its any other rights or remedies, forfeit and appropriate the Bid Security or
Performance Security, as the case may be, as mutually agreed genuine pre-
estimated compensation and damages payable to the Authority for, inter alia, time,
cost and effort of the Authority, in regard to the RFP, including consideration and
evaluation of such Applicant’s Proposal.
4.2 Without prejudice to the rights of the Authority under Clause 4.1 hereinabove and
the rights and remedies which the Authority may have under the LOA or the
Agreement, if an Applicant or Consultant, as the case may be, is found by the
Authority to have directly or indirectly or through an agent, engaged or indulged
in any corrupt practice, fraudulent practice, coercive practice, undesirable practice
or restrictive practice during the Selection Process, or after the issue of the LOA
or the execution of the Agreement, such Applicant or Consultant shall not be
eligible to participate in any tender or RFP issued by the Authority during a period
of 2 (two) years from the date such Applicant or Consultant, as the case may be,
is found by the Authority to have directly or through an agent, engaged or indulged
in any corrupt practice, fraudulent practice, coercive practice, undesirable practice
or restrictive practice, as the case may be.
4.3 For the purposes of this Section, the following terms shall have the meaning
hereinafter respectively assigned to them:
(a) “corrupt practice” means (i) the offering, giving, receiving, or soliciting,
directly or indirectly, of anything of value to influence the action of any
person connected with the Selection Process (for avoidance of doubt,
offering of employment to or employing or engaging in any manner
whatsoever, directly or indirectly, any official of the Authority who is or has
been associated in any manner, directly or indirectly with the Selection
Process or the LOA or has dealt with matters concerning the Agreement or
arising therefrom, before or after the execution thereof, at any time prior to
the expiry of one year from the date such official resigns or retires from or
otherwise ceases to be in the service of the Authority, shall be deemed to
constitute influencing the actions of a person connected with the Selection
Process); or (ii) save as provided herein, engaging in any manner
whatsoever, whether during the Selection Process or after the issue of the
LOA or after the execution of the Agreement, as the case may be, any person
in respect of any matter relating to the Project or the LOA or the Agreement,
who at any time has been or is a legal, financial or technical consultant/
adviser of the Authority in relation to any matter concerning the Project;

-- 52 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
45 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
(b) “fraudulent practice” means a misrepresentation or omission of facts or
disclosure of incomplete facts, in order to influence the Selection Process;
(c) “coercive practice” means impairing or harming or threatening to impair or
harm, directly or indirectly, any persons or property to influence any
person’s participation or action in the Selection Process;
(d) “undesirable practice” means (i) establishing contact with any person
connected with or employed or engaged by the Authority with the objective
of canvassing, lobbying or in any manner influencing or attempting to
influence the Selection Process; or (ii) having a Conflict of Interest; and
(e) “restrictive practice” means forming a cartel or arriving at any
understanding or arrangement among Applicants with the objective of
restricting or manipulating a full and fair competition in the Selection
Process.

-- 53 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
46 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
5. PRE-PROPOSAL CONFERENCE
5.1 Pre-Proposal Conference of the Applicants shall be convened at the designated date, time and
place. Only those Applicants, who have downloaded the RFP from the Official Website of
the Authority, shall be allowed to participate in the Pre-Proposal Conference. A maximum
of two representatives of each Applicant shall be allowed to participate on production of an
5.2 Authority letter from the Applicant. During the course of Pre-Proposal Conference, the
Applicants will be free to seek clarifications and make suggestions for consideration
of the Authority. The Authority shall endeavour to provide clarifications and such
further information as it may, in its sole discretion, consider appropriate for facilitating
a fair, transparent and competitive Selection Process.

-- 54 of 198 --

Request for Proposals
47 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
6. MISCELLANEOUS
6.1 The Selection Process shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the
laws of India and the Courts in the State in which the Authority has its
headquarters shall have exclusive jurisdiction over all disputes arising under,
pursuant to and/or in connection with the Selection Process.
6.2 The Authority, in its sole discretion and without incurring any obligation or
liability, reserves the right, at any time, to:
(a) suspend and/or cancel the Selection Process and/or amend and/or
supplement the Selection Process or modify the dates or other terms and
conditions relating thereto;
(b) consult with any Applicant in order to receive clarification or further
information;
(c) retain any information and/or evidence submitted to the Authority by, on
behalf of and/or in relation to any Applicant; and/or
(d) independently verify, disqualify, reject and/or accept any and all
submissions or other information and/or evidence submitted by or on behalf
of any Applicant.
6.3 It shall be deemed that by submitting the Proposal, the Applicant agrees and
releases the Authority, its employees, agents and advisers, irrevocably,
unconditionally, fully and finally from any and all liability for claims, losses,
damages, costs, expenses or liabilities in any way related to or arising from the
exercise of any rights and/or performance of any obligations hereunder, pursuant
hereto and/or in connection herewith and waives any and all rights and/or claims
it may have in this respect, whether actual or contingent, whether present or future.
6.4 All documents and other information supplied by the Authority or submitted by
an Applicant shall remain or become, as the case may be, the property of the
Authority. The Authority will not return any submissions made hereunder.
Applicants are required to treat all such documents and information as strictly
confidential.
6.5 The Authority reserves the right to make inquiries with any of the clients listed by
the Applicants in their previous experience record.

-- 55 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
48 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
SCHEDULES

-- 56 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
49 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
SCHEDULE–1
(See Clause 1.1.2)
Consultancy for NDAP Project
Terms of Reference (TOR)
for
CONSULTANT

-- 57 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
50 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Contents
1. General
2. Objective and Scope of Services
3. Transition Phase
3.1 Knowledge and Documentation Transfer
3.2 Understanding of Existing Processes and Systems
3.3 Joint Working and Capacity Building Sessions
3.4 Continuity and Risk Mitigation
4. Development Phase
4.1 Features and Functionality of NDAP
4.2 User Acceptance Test
4.3 Testing and GO Live
4.4 Security Testing and Audit
4.5 Documentation
4.6 Training of Authority’s staff
4.7 Data Transition
4.8 Integrity, Privacy and Security
5. Operations Phase
5.1 Deliverables
5.2 Maintenance of NDAP
5.3 Monitoring
5.4 Software Upgrades
5.5 Change Requests
5. Time and Payment Schedule
6. Meetings
7. Consultancy Team
8. Reporting
9. Data and software to be made available by the Authority
10. Completion of Services
Attachment -I: Indicative list of Reports

-- 58 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
51 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Terms of Reference (TOR)
1. GENERAL
1.1 The Authority seeks the services of qualified firms for developing, operating and
maintaining the National Data and Analytics Platform (NDAP). The Terms of
Reference (the “TOR”) for development and operation of the NDAP are specified
below. The assignment will be guided by the provisions of this TOR, Consultancy
and Service Agreement, Good Industry Practice and Applicable Laws.
2. OBJECTIVE AND SCOPE OF SERVICES
2.1 The objective of this Consultancy is to undertake the development, operation and
maintenance of a web portal that will serve as a single point for accessing data across
all Ministry(ies) of Government of India combined with intuitive visualization and
self-service analytics. The portal would provide natural language understanding
based advanced search features to find the appropriate data set across a huge variety
of data spread across different areas.
2.2 The scope of services shall comprise:
(i) Transition and complete knowledge transfer from OTSi (Object
Technology Solutions India Pvt. Ltd), ensuring operational continuity
including onboarding of datasets and formal handover of all systems,
documentation, and credentials.
(ii) Development of the data portal for launch on a designated date upon the
fulfilment of the go-live criteria specified in Section 3 during the
Development Phase; and
(iii) Operation and maintenance of the portal
These services are briefly explained hereunder:
3. TRANSITION PHASE
a. The Consultant shall ensure completion of transition phase from OTSi
(Object Technology Solutions India Pvt. Ltd) within 6 weeks from the
effective date of Agreement. The objective of this activity is to ensure
complete operational continuity, minimize disruption, and enable the
incoming team to gain comprehensive functional and technical knowledge
of the ongoing activities, systems, and workflows under NDAP.
b. The Consultant shall prepare a detailed Transition and Takeover Plan in
consultation with the NDAP Authority and the existing implementing
agency. This shall include, but not be limited to the following:

-- 59 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
52 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
i. The plan shall outline the transition timelines, key milestones,
deliverables, dependencies, roles and responsibilities, and
communication protocols for the handover process.
ii. The plan shall also specify the methodology for verification and
acceptance of transferred materials, credentials, and documentation.
3.1 Knowledge and Documentation Transfer
The Consultant shall ensure the systematic collection and validation of all documentation
and assets from OTSi (Object Technology Solutions India Pvt. Ltd), including but not
limited to:
i. Project plans, inception and progress reports, and audit documents.
ii. System design documents, data architecture, API documentation, source
code repositories, and version control details.
iii. Administrative, operational, and technical manuals.
iv. Dataset inventories, metadata standards, and taxonomy documentation.
v. Analytical model documentation, testing and UAT reports, and
deployment scripts.
vi. Access details (credentials, URLs, tokens, SSH keys, cloud account
information, etc.) for all environments—development, staging, and
production.
vii. Third-party integrations, licenses, and subscription information.
viii. Training materials, video tutorials, and user manuals.
3.2 Understanding of Existing Processes and Systems
a. The Consultant shall conduct detailed sessions to gain an in-depth
understanding of the as-is NDAP system, covering:
i. System architecture, modules, workflows, and data ingestion pipelines.
ii. Existing operational processes, governance structure, and stakeholder
communication mechanisms.
iii. Data onboarding, validation, and quality assurance workflows.
iv. Hosting and infrastructure setup, cloud configurations, and security
protocols.
v. Reporting dashboards, APIs, and integration mechanisms.
b. The Consultant shall prepare an As-Is System Report summarizing key
findings, dependencies, and improvement areas.
3.3 Joint Working and Capacity Building Sessions
a. The Consultant shall conduct orientation, handholding, and training sessions
with the OTSi (Object Technology Solutions India Pvt. Ltd) .
b. These sessions shall focus on cross-functional understanding of modules,
knowledge sharing on codebases, deployment cycles, and best practices for
data management.

-- 60 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
53 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
c. Capacity-building workshops shall be conducted to ensure operational
readiness of the new team prior to the complete handover.
3.4 Continuity and Risk Mitigation
a. The Consultant shall take proactive measures to avoid any service
interruption or degradation of ongoing NDAP operations during the transition
period.
b. Adequate backup, contingency, and support mechanisms shall be established
to ensure system stability.
c. The Consultant shall prepare a Transition Risk and Mitigation Plan,
identifying potential risks (e.g., data loss, access delays, configuration errors)
and corresponding preventive actions).
3.5 Completion and Validation
a. Upon completion of the handholding and knowledge transfer process, the
Consultant shall submit a Transition Completion Report along with
supporting evidence of successful handover.
b. Formal confirmation of completion shall be obtained from the Authority,
based on a mutually agreed handover checklist, documentation validation,
and performance verification of transferred systems and credentials.
4. DEVELOPMENT PHASE
4.1 Features and Functionality of NDAP
The NDAP would be developed in accordance with global best practices in line with
similar initiatives internationally in order to achieve the above objectives. The
following minimum features shall be complied with the following features and
functionalities:
Category Features
Non-Functional
Requirements
(a) Reliable 24/7 hosting with automated website backup.
(b) Cross-browser compatibility.
(c) Responsive web design across web interfaces, mobiles, and
tablets (e.g. disabled images, various resolutions/font sizes).
(d) Fast-loading pages (page load time involving less than 10
indicators should be less than 3 seconds for bandwidth of
512 kbps).
(e) Should be compliant with the Guidelines for Indian
Government Websites (GIGW) and
(f) Interoperability Framework for E-Governance in India
issued by Ministry of Electronics and Information
Technology (MeitY). The governance framework in this
regard including metadata standards to be finalised
during Development Phase and updated on a half-yearly
basis thereafter in consultation with the Authority.

-- 61 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
54 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
User-Sensitive
Access and
Personalization
Requirements
(a) Data catalogue for users to browse and access all available
datasets.
(b) Based on the past history of search by user, display dynamic
dashboards at any specified granularity of time and location
by collating data in various predefined categories.
(c) User profiling and personalization based on user’s previous
visits for registered and logged in users. Some of the features
of the portal will only be available to registered users.
Display of generic content for anonymous user.
(d) Registered users can receive automated reports based on
analysis performed directly at their inbox at scheduled
intervals – snapshot of the report would be attached with the
email and linked to the detailed report on the NDAP portal.
For the same, NIC email server can be used.
(e) Displays trending/recently viewed/most popular segments
and datasets of site.
(f) Provision of site map, listing all the contents of the website
including static content, training materials, etc.
(g) Collects data on user searches, eventual datasets that users
view, and user profiles to learn over time to produce more
relevant searches.
(h) Unified, metadata-driven data catalogue with federated
discovery, granular access control, PII masking, ministry-
wise data isolation, and SSO/e-Pramaan–based
authentication.
(i) Automated analytics and periodic reporting with secure email
delivery, live dashboard links, dataset trend indicators, and
comprehensive platform navigation resources.
(j) Generative AI–enabled multilingual conversational interface
(text and voice) with RAG-based, citation-backed responses
and contextual recommendations.
(k) Personalized user experience with saved analyses,
subscriptions, session memory, permission-based sharing,
and behaviour-driven personalization.
(l) Mobile-first, fully responsive platform supporting low-
bandwidth access and harmonized integration of micro-level
data for advanced analytics and policymaking.
(m) Support Harmonization and onboarding of micro-level data
from diverse sources, wherein variable harmonization must
use published, authoritative mappings (ex: MoSPI codebook)
or peer reviewed methodologies, citing them appropriately
and flagging any data drops or mismatched unit.
Search
Requirements
(a) The NDAP shall be designed and operated such that it functions
as a search engine for retrieving the data hosted on it. The
retrieval and display of data shall be in accordance with good

-- 62 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
55 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
industry practices followed by other eminent websites operating
in India and abroad.
(b) Allows users to search content across a variety of criteria
(sector, indicator, location) from search bar, through map-based
search, and from data catalogue.
(c) Provides context and/or query-based
suggested/related/recommended links and understanding of
synonyms. Multiple options based on the query can be
presented to the user if there is no single query interpretation.
(d) Approximate string matching while the user types in the query
keywords.
(e) Employs natural language understanding of search query (not
token keyword search) to provide:
i. Simple and intuitive Input Interpretations of
the textual query; and
ii. Suggested Alternatives for each
query subcomponent based on
function of user’s profile and previous similar
searches;
iii. Relevant Representations of results (e.g. time
series graphs, comparative graphs/tables)
based on query of user.
(f) Unified AI-powered search across structured data and
unstructured government content with extraction and combined
evidence-based responses.
(g) NLU-driven generative search supporting complex queries,
approximate matching, contextual suggestions, ambiguity
handling, and auto-visualization.
(h) Multilingual (text and voice) search across databases,
documents, images, and government repositories in English and
20+ Indic languages.
(i) Advanced analytical execution (SQL, Python, geospatial, time-
series, OCR, RAG) with auditable sandboxing and approval
workflows.
(j) Deterministic, clickable citations ensuring full data provenance
and traceability.
(k) Federated, ontology-based and geospatial (vector/raster)
discovery using metadata, thematic, and spatial relationships.

-- 63 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
56 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
(l) SDAP template aligned with NDAP for State/UT replication
and post–go-live O&M of the integrated NDAP platform.
Data
Requirements
The data requirements are categorised into:
(a) Coverage of Data Sources and Formats
(b) Data Modelling & Knowledge representation Layer
(c) Data Aggregation
(d) Data Analysis
(e) Data quality and standardisation
(f) Data refresh frequency
(g) Log management
(h) Data archival and retention features
(i) Interactivity and Accessibility
(1) Coverage of Data Sources and Formats
(a) Integrates Application Programming Interfaces (APIs)
provided by the Authority to read data into the platform.
(b) Integrates identified datasets after conducting relevant
stakeholder consultations consulting initial corpus of data
into website from the following sources:
i. Websites of 53 Ministries and Departments of
Central Government;
ii. Websites of all departments and Ministries of
State Governments not exceeding 250;
iii. Autonomous and affiliated bodies of the
Ministries
iv. Reports for key sectors as shown in the
indicative list at Attachment-I.
(c) Have an automated system for alerts on addition of new
datasets for any of the above sources, necessary for updating
of NDAP.
(d) Fetch data in structure, semi-structured and unstructured
(e.g., PDF, HTML, scanned tables) format from all the
Government websites (both State and Central) and reports
(indicative list is at Attachment-I) and onboard on NDAP as
per directions from NITI.
(e) Schedule crawls for Ministry(ies)/ State websites to
discover newly published datasets. Fetch any new data that
has been uploaded on the websites.
(f) The Authority may include more data sources and reports
over time.
(g) Full provenance metadata (URL, timestamp, checksum)
retained for each dataset

-- 64 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
57 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
(2) Data Modelling & Knowledge representation Layer:
Develop a Unified Data Modelling Layer that supports the
following:
(a) consistent metadata structures,
(b) standardized indicator definitions (referring from existing
national and international standards),
(c) age/sex/geography-level disaggregation,
(d) mapping of survey and administrative datasets,
(e) compatibility with harmonization methods.
(3) Data Aggregation
(a) Extraction of accurate data from the various Government
websites.
(b) Conversion of reports into machine readable format and
extraction of the numeric information into machine readable
format.
(c) All data points ingested into NDAP should have a common
schematic theme including location, time, and sector.
(d) Automatic Extract, Transform, Load (ETL) process to map
incoming data to designed data model.
(e) Metadata management tool to track ETLs, transformations
and changes made to data.
(f) Ability to process data from national to village/town level
resolution (based on various codes like LGD codes, PIN
codes, Census codes, etc.).
(g) Ability to aggregate information from individual data sets to
higher aggregation levels based on location (e.g. village/
district/ city/ state) or time (daily/ weekly/ monthly/
quarterly/ yearly).
(h) Ability to input structured and semi-structured (e.g. XML,
JSON) data formats.
(i) Seamlessly integrate an initial data capacity of 1 TB, which
should be scalable up to 10 TB upon payment of recurring
costs by the Authority for provision and use of data capacity
in excess of 3 TB.
(j) Ensure quarterly incorporation of all non-API data within one
week of publishing on the parent website of the data sources.
(k) System should be able to handle 5000 concurrent users and
should be scalable to 7500 concurrent users upon payment of
recurring costs by the Authority for and in respect of
concurrent users in excess of 1,000.
(l) System should be able to give a response to any search query
involving ten or less indicators (including their analysis and
visualization) in 3 seconds or less.
(m) Portal to be procured and hosted on a Government of India
Cloud (MeghRaj) or on a Ministry of Electronics and

-- 65 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
58 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Information Technology (MeitY) empanelled cloud
Consultant. Details about the cloud can be found on
http://meity.gov.in/content/gi-cloud-meghraj.
(n) For the purpose of traceability, all downloaded reports from
other Ministries and State Governments websites would be
saved in the database along with the date and time of the fetch
activity.
(o) Conversion of non-machine-readable format.
(p) Periodic schema validation (“health-check”) and
recommendation of schema extensions.
(q) Data harmonization to common indicators and identifiers
such as - LGD, Census, PIN codes, etc.
(4) Data Analysis
a) Inbuilt visualization of data from datasets (e.g. bar chart, pie
chart, bubble chart, donut chart, area chart, cartogram, info-
graphics, 3D visualizations, radar chart, geo-mapping) with
customizable data ranges and properties.
b) Inbuilt analytics (e.g. correlations, multivariable plotting)
with drag and drop customization functionality/the ability to
choose suitable graphs intelligently.
c) Animated visualizations on variable factors, including
dynamic visualization with drill-down and drill-up features
at all applicable granularity.
d) Ability to compare, analyse and reason data across datasets
using spatial (location), temporal (time period), domain
(sector) and measurement indicators.
e) Ability to generate customizable reports by cross-linking
datasets.
f) Downloadable/shareable datasets at a customizable
resolution, range, time interval, etc. in standard formats (e.g.,
xml, json, csv, etc.).
g) All visualizations exportable in formats as customized by
user (e.g., jpeg, png, pdf, etc.).
h) Ability to share visualizations/data on third party websites
while keeping the metadata, including the source attribution,
traceable.
i) Provides metadata information (source, year, methodology,
etc.) for datasets.
(5) Data Quality and Standardisation
(a) SLAs and frameworks need to drive data quality as this will
enable accuracy in the final reports.

-- 66 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
59 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
(b) Publication of Data-Standardisation SOP (including citations
and source definitions), Core Schema, User Manual, and
Dataset Directory
(c) Continuous data validation using AI-based anomaly
detection and schema consistency checks.
(d) Spatio-temporal data harmonisation with semantic context
preservation: Ability to harmonise and standardise datasets
across time and geographies (spatio-temporal), while
maintaining the semantic context of the user’s query. As
users move across datasets, filters, definitions, and units
remain consistent, so the system does not “forget” intent mid-
analysis.
(6) Data Refresh Frequency
(a) Most of the indicative reports are annual, but periodic refresh of
the data for any ad-hoc reporting.
(b) Real-time synchronization for API-based datasets; ≤ 24 hours for
high-frequency bulletins; ≤ 7 days for periodic publications.
(c) A live “data refresh register” to be maintained, recording release
cadence, last updated, and next expected update.
(7) Log Management
(a) Needs to maintain a log feature accounting for all the data
access and actions performed by various users-updates,
changes, refreshes etc. The 3 log streams shall be : - ETL and
data-quality pipeline logs; User-activity logs (views,
downloads, exports) and Generative AI inference logs
(prompts, retrieved records, latency, citations, error codes).
(b) Integration with Security Information and Event Management
(SIEM) tools for audit and compliance monitoring.
(8) Data Archival and Retention
(a) This will drive the temporary storage requirements for logs,
cache data etc. to ensure faster loading of all the tables.
(b) Compliance with NIC/MeitY data retention and audit policies.
(c) Cache optimization to reduce latency and improve data retrieval
performance.
(9) Interactivity and Accessibility
(a) Built-in terminals and software for blind/visually impaired
users. The navigation and usability aspects of the site should be
friendly to blind/visually impaired people.
(b) English/Hindi language translations for audio/video tutorials
with speech. The tutorials should have content in both English
and Hindi, both as speech and written sub-titles.

-- 67 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
60 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
(c) Multi-lingual website covering all 22 major Indian
languages. Only the static navigation content needs to be made
available in the major Indian languages.
(d) Context sensitive ‘Help’ feature.
(e) Integrated social media/share content function (email,
Facebook, Twitter, etc.) as embedded graphics and embeddable
code.
(f) Platform tutorial videos and media.
(g) Optional user registration for personalized features like
“follow” datasets, sector, location and receive automated
email/mobile alerts and notifications.
(h) Gen AI conversational interface (text and voice) in English
and 20+ Indic languages with STT, TTS, and NLU.
(i) No-code visual authoring for non-technical users with
project- and session-level memory.
(j) Context-aware GenAI assistance with follow-up prompts,
auto-visualizations, dataset.

-- 68 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
61 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Site Analytics
and Feedback
Site Analytics
(a) Tracks site traffic (page views, visits, pages per visit,
bounce rate, new visits, and average time on site, most
popular datasets, most downloaded datasets, etc.).
(b) Tracks user demographics (access browser, operating
systems used, languages, state/country of access).
(c) Tracks cookies and IP addresses.
(d) Tracks which parts of the backend database are accessed
and at what frequency to understand dataset relevance.
(e) Site statistics are displayed on the website with the user
having options to filter the statistics on simple parameters
like location, date, sector, data source, etc.
(f) Continuous improvement of user experience, data discovery, and
AI responses using behaviour and feedback analytics.
Feedback
(a) Every page of the Portal would have an option for user Feedback
as a floating icon on the page.
(b) This floating icon for user feedback would be accessible while
browsing various pages of the entire Portal.
(c) Once clicked, pop-up window opens up.
(d) There is a 5-Star rating of the site that the user can provide as
feedback.
(e) The pop-up window would have drop-down option on the reason
for the feedback like: Incorrect search results, Data not available, In-
appropriate visualization, In-appropriate analysis, data error, Other
etc. Other opens up a blank box to enter the reason for the feedback.
(f) Feedback details are compulsory to be entered by the user,
including the Ministries who might have the missing data.
(g) User name, email and mobile number can be collected as optional
fields for unregistered users.
(h) The captured feedback details along with the automatically
generated screenshot (with details of the page, query and response)
of the content currently displayed on the Portal is mailed to the admin
of both the Vendor and NITI Aayog PMU along with being stored in
the database as feedback logs.
(i) The list of new data items missing from the site along with number
of requests would be made available on the NDAP portal on a
monthly basis and also reach out to the Ministries and State
Governments requesting that data.

-- 69 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
62 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Security Produce an “Application Security Audit Clearance Certificate” for
the solution to be deployed and should ensure adherence to approved
security guidelines published by the Indian Computer Emergency
Response Team (CERT-In), the Standardization, Testing and Quality
Certification (STQC) by MeitY, or any other guideline issued by a
Government of India agency. The Consultant should ensure the
appropriate risk and contingency planning for project. Vendor is
responsible for ensuring the timely completion of these activities in
co-ordination with the certified vendors. Details of the same can be
found on the following website: http://www.cert-in.org.in/.
Disaster
Recovery, and
Business
Continuity
(a) The Consultant shall ensure that the NDAP system is
protected against natural disasters, software failures, human
error, and other contingencies that could interrupt services.
(b) The Consultant shall establish and maintain a disaster
recovery environment suitable to enable business continuity
in the event of a disaster that affects the operational
environment.
(c) The Consultant shall forthwith create a Business
Continuity Plan (BCP) that shall include a Disaster
Recovery Plan as well as security policies and procedures.
The BCP shall contain information regarding how the
NDAP systems and data will be protected, what steps would
be taken to replicate/restore/recover any lost data and the
timeframes involved, frequency of maintenance
procedures/hardware and software upgrades and their
impact on system performance, capacity and/or uptime.
(d) The Consultant shall conduct an exercise to test the BCP
twice a year and meet recovery criteria of 2 Hours for
NDAP applications. Test results shall be compiled by the
Consultant in a report to be shared with the Authority. In
addition, emergency drills shall be conducted once a year.

-- 70 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
63 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Deployment and
Model
Governance
(a) Fine-tuned models on curated Indian government
and policy corpora, with measurable performance gains on
Indian policy QA benchmarks.
(b) Full Authority control over model weights,
deployment, and inference, with no external runtime
dependency.
(c) Secure VPC-based deployment across storage,
vector databases, inference, and tools to meet quality and
performance targets.
(d) Domain tuning with strict data boundaries and
human-in-the-loop feedback for supervised and RL-based
post-training.
(e) Benchmarking at release and periodic re-evaluation
with public reporting to the PMU.
(f) Built-in instruction safeguards, refusal handling, and
cultural alignment for Indian governance use cases.
(g) Proven throughput, latency, and memory efficiency
on Authority-owned infrastructure.
(h) Models must be open source or auditable.
(i) MeitY-empanelled cloud/VPC hosting with data
residency and private endpoints.

-- 71 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
64 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Agentic
orchestrator
(deterministic,
multi-tool,
enterprise-grade
orchestration
layer)
1. Implement a modular, scalable, and secure Agentic AI
architecture comprising:
i. Semantic intent understanding: Interprets natural-
language queries, identifies the underlying analytical
task, and maps them to the correct workflow template.
ii. Deterministic task execution: Executes every step in a
predictable, rule-bound, and auditable manner so that
identical inputs and parameters always produce identical
outputs—unlike probabilistic planner agents.
iii. Stateful code-execution engine (autoscaling to >5,000
sessions): Provides a scalable execution environment
that maintains state across steps, supports long-running
analytical tasks, and autos-scales to handle large user
loads without performance degradation.
iv. Secure, sandboxed execution with OS-level guardrails:
All code execution happens in an isolated sandbox with
built-in OS-level protections that prevent print-injection,
remote-code-execution attacks, and unauthorized system
access.
v. Workflow composition: Breaks down complex queries
into ordered steps (retrieval → transformation →
analysis → synthesis), executing them sequentially or in
parallel with full determinism.
vi. Tool and model prioritisation: Selects and sequences the
appropriate models, analytical utilities, and datasets for
each step, instead of relying on a monolithic or
autonomous agent.
vii. Recursive reasoning & causal, deep analytics: Iteratively
revisits intermediate outputs, performs causal inference
and driver analysis, and surfaces deeper insights about
why patterns occur—not just what happened.
viii. Declarative authoring system: Allows configuration of
workflows and orchestration logic through a
deterministic, auditable specification. Enables rapid
construction of new workflows tailored to evolving
policy, analytical, or operational needs without requiring
low-level coding.
ix. Shared filesystem for multi-agent coordination: All
components operate over a secure, autoscalable shared
filesystem, allowing agents and tools to exchange
intermediate artefacts, logs, and datasets safely and
efficiently.
x. End-to-end traceability: Maintains full logs (including
prompt history and query logs), intermediate results,
citations, and execution traces for auditability,
reproducibility, and compliance.
2. The architecture shall be:

-- 72 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
65 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
i. Cloud-agnostic and compatible with Government of
India cloud policies
ii. Microservices-based
iii. Extensible for future AI capabilities

-- 73 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
66 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Core Agentic AI
Features
a. Intelligent Data Discovery Agent
a. Automatically indexes new datasets onboarded to NDAP
b. Understands metadata, sector, geography, time-series nature
c. Recommends relevant datasets to users based on:
i. User role (policy maker, researcher, analyst,
citizen)
ii. Past usage patterns
iii. Current analytical intent
d. Supports multilingual search (English + Indian languages
where feasible)
b. Natural Language Query & Analytics Agent
a. Enables users to query NDAP data using natural language
b. Converts queries into:
i. Dataset selection
ii. Data joins
iii. Filters
iv. Visualizations
c. Autonomously decides optimal chart/map/table format
d. Supports follow-up queries and conversational refinement.
Maintain conversational history and context over multi-turn
interactions
c. Autonomous Cross-Dataset Insight Agent
a. Identifies correlations and relationships across datasets and
sectors
b. Generates explainable insights (e.g., trend analysis,
comparisons)
c. Flags statistically significant patterns without explicit user
prompts
d. Provides confidence scores and methodological notes.
e. Handle messy joins. Generate a report of dropped rows,
logic and assumptions for linkages.
d. Predictive & Scenario Simulation Agent
a. Uses historical NDAP data for:
What-if policy scenario simulations
b. Allows users to define parameters (e.g., budget increase,
coverage expansion)
c. The analysis shall be displayed along with a subjective
Disclaimer. Generates interpretable outputs suitable for
policy review.
e. Anomaly Detection & Early Warning Agent
a. Continuously monitors selected indicators
b. Detects:
i. Sudden deviations
ii. Structural breaks
iii. Outliers
c. Generates alerts and auto-explanatory diagnostics
d. Supports configurable thresholds per sector/indicator
e. Custom nudges and alerts based on user roles and

-- 74 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
67 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
policy interest areas.

-- 75 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
68 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
f. Automated Report & Policy Brief Generation Agent
a. Generates periodic reports
(monthly/quarterly/annual)
b. Auto-creates:
i. Executive summaries
ii. Charts and maps
iii. Key findings and trends
c. Outputs in downloadable formats (PDF, DOCX, PPT)
d. Ensures traceability of insights to underlying datasets
g. Data Quality & Harmonization Agent
a. Performs automated checks for:
i. Missing values
ii. Schema mismatches
iii. Temporal and spatial inconsistencies
b. Suggests corrective actions
c. Learns from past data validation decisions
d. Supports NDAP data standards and interoperability
guidelines
h. Hallucination Detection Agent
a. Performs automated checks for:
i. Uncertainty and confidence assessment
ii. Factual consistency
b. Continuously analyses user and expert feedback to
detect.
c. Verifies generated responses against source data and
flags unverified outputs.
d. If the agent cannot find a deterministic source
(URL/document ID) for a generated claim, it must
withhold that specific claim or flag it as Low
Confidence / Unverified.
i. Automated Delta Monitoring and Refresh
a. Monitors data sources for:
i. New data release
ii. File updates, revision, replacement
b. Validates detected updates against existing datasets to
assess impact and compatibility
c. Sends notifications when new or updated data
becomes available, keeping the platform up to date.

-- 76 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
69 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Human-in-the-
Loop &
Governance
Controls
The system shall ensure:
a. Human approval for:
i. Policy recommendations
ii. Predictive insights used for official decision-
making
b. Explainability dashboards showing:
i. Data sources used
ii. Logic/reasoning steps
iii. Confidence levels
iv. Key assumptions
c. Override, feedback, and correction mechanisms for users.
d. If a generative answer covers multiple datasets or inferred
values, the agent must tag uncertain statements with caveats
AI Ethics,
Security &
Compliance
a. Compliance with:
i. Government of India AI ethics guidelines
ii. Data privacy and security policies
b. No training of AI models on restricted or sensitive datasets
c. Secure isolation of user interactions
d. Role-based access control (RBAC)
e. Full audit logs of model prompts, transformation steps,
citation sources, AI actions and decisions
Scalability &
Future
Readiness
a. Support onboarding of new datasets, sectors, and ministries
b. Allow addition of new AI agents without architectural changes
c. Be compatible with future integration of:
i Federated learning
ii External government data platforms
iii Advanced visualization tools
Operations,
Monitoring &
Maintenance
a. Continuous monitoring of:
i Model performance
ii Drift detection
iii Bias indicators
b. Periodic retraining and optimization
c. Automated rollback in case of degraded performance

-- 77 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
70 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Integration
Readiness
Requirements
with other
microsites
a. Design NDAP’s shared and extensible data taxonomy to be:
i. Extensible, allowing state-level and city-level
indicators to be added without rework.
ii. Versioned, with clear documentation of changes and
backward compatibility.
iii. Hierarchical, enabling navigation from national
data down to state, district, city, and ward (where
applicable).
iv. Consistent across domains, so that the datasets on
other domains can map cleanly to NDAP’s national
and state datasets.
v. Updated, so that any update to the NDAP schema or
data taxonomy will cascade to update all mappings
and derived indicators.
b. Support Standardized Metadata Framework:
i. A uniform metadata schema for all datasets,
including metadata, data-source information, update
frequency, quality flags, and lineage.
ii. A metadata standard compliant with widely accepted
frameworks allowing publishing of metadata in a
comparable format.
Metadata APIs must allow compatible external systems to
query dataset descriptions, schemas, lineage, and update
history.
c. Provide Public, Well-Documented APIs, subjective to NITIs
discretion:
i. RESTful, versioned APIs for data access, metadata
access, and taxonomy queries.
ii. Authenticated Partner APIs that allow state and
city-level systems to bulk upload, bulk query, and
validate data.
iii. Rate-limited public APIs for developers,
researchers, and state partners.
API documentation would be published using industry
standards.
d. Schema and Data Model Interoperability:
i. External linked datasets can be added as separate
schemas within the same database instance

-- 78 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
71 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
e. Integration Sandbox and Testing Environment:
i. A sandbox environment where external developers
can test ingestion, querying, and integration with
NDAP APIs.
ii. Sample datasets and mock endpoints to simulate
national to city level (but not limited to) dataset
flows.
iii. Automated test harnesses to verify quality,
compatibility, and performance.
This sandbox is essential to ensure that future extensions can
be plugged into NDAP without disrupting live operations.
f. Authentication, Access Control and Partner Onboarding:
i. Implement a role-based access framework suitable
for multi-tier systems (national, state, city).
ii. Allow onboarding of state and city partners with
appropriate permissions for upload, review, and
query.
iii. Provide clear audit logs so that future extensions
ingestion events, validations, and updates can be
tracked end-to-end.
iv. Implement a Partner Integration Governance
Framework which would define categories of
partner systems (ministries, states, research
institutions, city platforms), standard integration
onboarding process, data sharing agreements and
responsibilities, monitoring of partner
integrations and usage.
The proposed measurable documentation includes partner
integration framework document, standard onboarding templates
and integration governance workflows.
g. Shared Data Governance Framework
i. Define rules for dataset versioning, update cycles, and data
quality checks that can be extended to future extensions.
ii. Allow external datasets to follow the same governance processes,
ensuring uniformity across levels of government.
iii. Provide workflow support for approvals, validations, and
rejections that accommodate both central and state-level data
partners.
iv. Establishment of a governance structure responsible for
overseeing interoperability between NDAP and external
platforms, ensuring alignment with defined technical
standards and integration protocols.

-- 79 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
72 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
v. Definition of policies and procedures for managing
updates to schemas, taxonomies, and metadata standards to
maintain consistency across datasets and integrated
systems.
vi. Periodic integration audits to review compliance with
interoperability guidelines, assess performance of
integrations, and ensure continued adherence to NDAP
standards.
The proposed measurable documentation includes NDAP
interoperability governance charter, schema change management
policy and Integration monitoring reports.
h. UI/UX Level Continuity for User Navigation:
i. A consistent user experience that allows seamless
navigation from national → state → city data layers.
ii. Breadcrumbs, filters, and visualisations that
maintain structural continuity across all levels.
iii. The ability to embed external systems visualisations
or datasets within NDAP interfaces as and when
required by NITI Aayog.
i. Documentation, Onboarding, and Handover:
i. Detailed documentation of APIs, taxonomies, data
models, metadata, and event flows that enable easy
integration with future extensions/ external systems
as and when required by NITI Aayog.
ii. Partner onboarding guides for states, urban local
bodies, etc.
iii. Training sessions with external teams to ensure
smooth collaboration.
j. Futureproofing and Modularity:
i. NDAP can accommodate other geographical
granular data like city-level datasets without re-
architecture.
ii. New modules (such as future extensions analytics or
dashboards) can be plugged in with minimal
modification.
iii. NITI Aayog can incorporate additional state or city-
level data initiatives in the future.

-- 80 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
73 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
k. NDAP Interoperability Architecture Framework: The framework
may include
i. Architecture for integration with sectoral, state, and city data
platforms
ii. Metadata and schema standards aligned to national identifiers
iii. Compliance and certification process for integrating external
platforms, if any
The proposed measurable documentation includes interoperability
architecture document, partner integration playbook and governance
guidelines, metadata standard specification and integration
compliance checklist.
4.1.1 The Authority shall have the right to add or edit the features specified above. If
significant costs are associated with any additional features, then the manday rates
for same, as specified by the Consultant in its Bid, shall be used for making
additional payments to the Consultant.
4.1.2 The Authority may, in its discretion, undertake a third-party audit of the aforesaid
software at its own cost and expense.
4.2 User Acceptance Test
4.2.1 The Consultant shall prepare a list of user acceptance criteria as part of a Test Plan
prior to commencing the development of NDAP and submit to the Authority for
approval.

-- 81 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
74 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
4.2.2 Prior to go-live, Consultant will demonstrate and ensure that the system meets all
functional and technical requirements as specified in this TOR.
4.2.3 The Test Plan should support function/system integration/stress and load/User
Acceptance Test (UAT) to ensure that the software is comprehensive, auditable, and
complete with test cases.
4.2.4 As part of system integration testing, the Consultant should test data conversion and
migration to the new Data Warehouse ecosystem and ensure transaction data flows
accurately.
4.2.5 Test procedures shall be carried out by the Consultant to assess the following:
(a) conformity with the functional requirements and require process
operations;
(b) performance of the system with reference to response time and accuracy;
(c) integrity of the software after installation;
(d) user friendliness; and
(e) other parameters as determined by the Authority.
4.2.6 The Consultant must eliminate any operational bugs that arise from testing and fine
tune the software as needed.
4.2.7 On the basis of these tests, a report would be submitted by the Consultant for review
and approval by the Authority. The test results and response times should be
demonstrated by the Consultant in an environment and infrastructure as mutually
agreed upon by the the Authority and the Consultant.
4.3 Testing and Go-Live of NDAP
4.3.1 The Consultant shall prepare a Test Plan after the development and customization/
configuration of the NDAP to demonstrate and ensure that the system meets all
functional and technical requirements as brought out in this RFP and the detailed
Work Plan prior to Go-Live.
4.3.2 The Test Plan should support function/system integration/stress and load/User
Acceptance Test (UAT) to ensure that the software is comprehensive, auditable, and
complete with test cases.
4.3.3 As part of system integration testing, the Consultant should test data conversion and
migration to the new Data Warehouse ecosystem and ensure transaction data flows
accurately.
4.3.4 Test procedures shall be carried out by the Consultant to assess the following:
(a) conformity with the functional requirements and required process operations;

-- 82 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
75 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
(b) performance of the system with reference to response time and accuracy;
(c) integrity of the software after installation;
(d) user friendliness; and
(e) other parameters as determined by the Authority.
4.3.5 The Consultant must eliminate any operational bugs that arise from testing and
finetune the software as needed.
4.3.6 On the basis of these tests, a report would be submitted by the Consultant for review
and approval by the Authority. The test results and response times should be
demonstrated by the Consultant in an environment and infrastructure as mutually
agreed upon by the Authority and the Consultant.
4.4 Guardrails, Security Testing and Audit
4.4.1 The NDAP should be compliant with the guidelines of GIGW and be functional and
load tested and consequently certified by the STQC Directorate.
4.4.2 The NDAP should be security audited by a reputed CERT-In empanelled testing firm
(to be nominated by the Authority) prior to deployment into production server or
before Go-Live of the Project.
4.4.3 The Consultant shall bear all expenses relating to security testing and audit. As such,
payment to the auditing agency shall be made by the Consultant.
4.4.4 The NDAP shall be regularly audited from the CERT-In empanelled agency. The
frequency of auditing shall be six-monthly or earlier in case of a major change in
any application or module.
4.4.5 The NDAP solution will be considered Go-Live (implemented) when all the above
conditions are satisfied.
4.4.6 The Consultant shall implement an Audit and Guardrail Framework ensuring:
1. Only authorised government datasets are used;
2. Only validated methodologies (generic or domain-specific) are applied;
3. Every AI-generated analysis includes a transparent explanation of data sources,
steps taken, and methods used.
This audit trail shall be available to the Authority for monitoring and compliance
verification.

-- 83 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
76 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
4.5 Documentation
4.5.1 The following Deliverables would be provided as part of the final documentation:
(a) Training Document;
(b) Portal documentation;
(c) Training videos showing step-wise flows;
(d) System Architecture;
(e) Database design;
(f) Source code;
(g) Taxonomy and meta-data information;
(h) Analytical models and their documentation (Natural Language,
Information Extraction, etc.);
(i) Related username and passwords to the system; and
(j) Maintenance Schedule.
4.5.2 In addition to the above, the following documents should be also provided on regular
basis:
(a) API Documentation – covering endpoints, authentication methods, rate
limits, request/response formats, and integration examples (including spatial
APIs, metadata APIs, and dataset download APIs).
(b) User Manuals / Quick Reference Guides – separate manuals for
administrators, data publishers, and end-users detailing workflows and
permissions.
(c) Data Quality and Validation Framework Document – outlining quality
checks, validation rules, and standard operating procedures for data
ingestion.
(d) Security and Compliance Document – describing implemented security
controls, encryption standards, audit trail mechanisms, and compliance with
standards like ISO 27001 and OWASP.
(e) Disaster Recovery and Backup Plan – specifying backup frequency, data
recovery mechanisms, RTO/RPO values, and failover strategy.
(f) Performance Benchmarking and Load Testing Report – documenting
scalability tests, response times, and concurrent user performance results.
(g) Version Control and Change Management Log – capturing updates,
patches, and release notes for transparency and auditability.
(h) Accessibility Compliance Report – detailing conformance with WCAG 2.1
and GIGW guidelines for accessibility.

-- 84 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
77 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
(i) Data Governance and Stewardship Guidelines – roles and responsibilities
for dataset owners, curators, and custodians.
(j) Integration Interfaces Document – describing interoperability with
external systems such as e-Pramaan, NIC Cloud, or state data platforms.
4.6 Training of the Authority staff
4.6.1 The Consultant shall provide training and tutorials of the NDAP for the Authority
staff, including development, rollout and management of a standard staff training
plan, creation of the necessary training material/resource documents.
4.6.2 Training may be offered as online support, phone and email support, on-site training,
or any combination thereof as determined by the Authority from time to time. The
Consultant shall provide on-site training to up to 10 (ten) officials of the Authority
every 6 (six) months.
4.6.3 At a minimum, the training topics shall include:
(a) Solution architecture and design;
(b) Technical operations;
(c) Data migration, including data integration and uploading;
(d) Analytics, visualization, and reporting tools;
(e) Terminology services support; and
(f) Resolving user queries.
4.6.4 The Consultant shall provide the following documents:
(a) Hard copy and electronic versions of training materials;
(b) a training approach that will support initial training requirements;
(c) a training approach that will support ongoing training requirements;
(d) proposal that includes web-based training modules;
(e) proposal for in-person training; and
(f) staff education to maintain the confidentiality of sensitive information.
4.7 Data Transition
4.7.1 Following the expiry or termination of the Agreement for any reason, the Consultant
shall ensure that the Authority has exclusive access to and control of the NDAP data
in a format that is reasonably acceptable and without any additional cost to the
Authority.

-- 85 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
78 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
4.7.2 In the event that the Authority transfers the NDAP data to a new or replacement
system and/or grants a designated agency access to the NDAP data, the Consultant
shall provide technical assistance to the Authority to facilitate data transition.
4.7.3 Data transition shall include the migration of user addresses, user credentials, saved
messages, all inbound messages, and any other processes necessary to carry out
complete knowledge transfer.
4.7.4 The Consultant shall provide shadow support through the completion of data
transition.
4.8 Integrity, Privacy and Security
4.8.1 This encompasses a set of controls, policies and tools to ensure and monitor the
integrity, privacy and security of shared data, metadata and artifacts as outlined below.
4.8.2 Regulatory Compliance
a. Information Technology Act, 2000 (IT Act): Adhere to the IT Act and its associated
Rules, such as the Information Technology (Reasonable Security Practices and
Procedures and Sensitive Personal Data or Information) Rules, 2011.
b. National Data Sharing and Accessibility Policy (NDSAP): Ensure compliance to
requirements specified for Data Classification (based on sensitivity & importance),
Data Standards (standardized formats and protocols for data collection, storage, and
sharing), Access Control, Data Security (measures to protect data from unauthorized
access, breaches, other security threats) etc.
c. Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023 (DPDP Act): Ensure compliance with
India's primary data protection legislation and its associated Rules as and when
notified.
4.8.3 Data Governance Measures
a. Data Classification and Handling: Define policies for classifying data based on
sensitivity and handling procedures for each category.
b. Access Control: Implement role-based access controls (RBAC) to ensure only
authorized personnel can access sensitive data.
c. Data Retention and Disposal: Establish clear guidelines for data retention periods
and secure disposal methods.
4.8.4 Security Measures
a. Encryption: Use strong encryption methods (e.g., AES-256) for data at rest and in
transit
b. Network Security: Implement firewalls, intrusion detection/prevention systems
(IDS/IPS), and secure communication protocols.
c. Endpoint Security: Ensure all endpoints are protected with antivirus software,
endpoint detection and response (EDR) tools, and regular security updates.
4.8.5 Data Integrity Controls

-- 86 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
79 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
a. Data Validation: Implement data validation checks to ensure data accuracy and
consistency during entry and transfer.
b. Audit Trails: Maintain detailed logs of data access and modifications to track and
audit data usage.
c. Regular Backups: Schedule regular backups and ensure they are stored securely and
tested for integrity.
4.8.6 Privacy Enhancing Technologies (PETs)
a. Anonymization and Pseudonymization: Use techniques to anonymize or
pseudonymize personal data to protect individual privacy.
4.8.7 Monitoring and Incident Response
a. Continuous Monitoring: Use tools to continuously monitor data access and usage
for any anomalies or unauthorized activities.
b. Incident Response Plan: Develop and regularly update an incident response plan to
address data breaches and security incidents promptly.
4.8.8 Tools for
a. Data Loss Prevention (DLP): Tools to prevent data breaches.
b. Security Information and Event Management (SIEM): Tools for real-time
monitoring and analysis of security events
Specific tools to be implemented for DLP and SIEM will be decided in discussion with the
Client.
5 OPERATIONS PHASE
5.1 Deliverables
5.1.1 The Consultant shall deliver the following deliverables (the “Deliverables”) during
the Operations Phase of this Consultancy:
(a) Maintenance of NDAP;
(b) Monitoring;
(c) Software Upgrades; and
(d) Change Request
(e) Data Onboarding
5.1.2 The aforesaid Deliverables are briefly described in Paragraphs 5.2 to 5.5 below.
5.2 MAINTENANCE OF NDAP
5.2.1 The Consultant shall provide a schedule for regular maintenance of the portal during
the Project period. The Consultant shall ensure that there is no fall in service quality during
maintenance. Routine maintenance shall include server upgrades, software upgrades,
solution stability monitoring, annual technical support, troubleshooting and addressing the
functionality, availability and performance issues.

-- 87 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
80 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
5.2.2 The Consultant shall discharge the following obligations during the Operations Phase:
(a) Provide online support based on the timelines defined in the SLA;
(b) Re-train and update any and all models used in the platform (e.g. natural
language processing, user profiling, search suggestion optimization), at least
every three months for the duration of the Project;
(c) ensure necessary infrastructure uptime of the NDAP in accordance with the
Consultancy and Service Agreement;
(d) ensure that the environment is bug and error free, running smoothly, and
simultaneously incorporating necessary configuration changes in the
software stack;
(e) implement code change requests made by the Authority in deployed custom
coding;
(f) ensure that all modifications and enhancements suggested by the Authority
are duly sized and resolved as per mutually agreed timeframes;
(g) provide warranty support and up-to-date annual maintenance of components
of the NDAP including software;
(h) stay up-to-date with the production environment and new releases and
technology advancements through Original Equipment Manufacturer
(OEM) patches;
(i) track progress and current status as data is added automatically from source
Ministry(ies) with live feeds, highlights and updates, along with periodic
archiving of old content;
(j) provide full support and maintenance related to the software coming from
third-party Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM); and
(k) ensure availability of all dependent systems like ticketing, repository and
other related services.
5.3 Monitoring
5.3.1. The Consultant shall monitor the service levels as defined in Annex-8 of the Service
& Consultancy Agreement.
5.3.2 The Consultant shall provide monitoring tools to maintain the service levels specified
in the Consultancy and Service Agreement for all features mentioned in the
‘Features and Functionality’ section.
5.3.3 The Consultant shall integrate and capture website analytics to track traffic of users
based on multiple filters such as demographics, areas accessed, browser types and
time spent on the Platform. Reports on these parameters shall be provided to the
Authority on monthly basis.
5.3.4 The solutions provided by the Consultant shall have an integrated management tool
to monitor the hardware, OS, software, administration and management.
5.3.5 The Consultant shall monitor the servers for performance utilization measures,
response, memory, disk space, bandwidth and uptime.
5.3.6 The Consultant shall document and demonstrate measurement of system performance
benchmarks against similar systems.

-- 88 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
81 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
5.3.7 The Consultant shall monitor network connections, devices, activity, database sizing,
system response times, availability, utilization, and memory, and defect tracking.
5.3.8 The Consultant shall provide documentation describing performance utilization
measurement capabilities and monitoring capabilities.
5.4 Software Upgrades
5.4.1 The Consultant shall be responsible for all software upgrades, including
identification, timing, testing and implementation.
5.4.2 New versions of the technology solution components that are issued by the
Consultant during the period of the Agreement shall be implemented by the
Consultant as part of the NDAP project within 60 days of release of upgrades at no
additional cost to the Authority.
5.5 Change Request
5.5.1 During the Operations phase, the Authority may specify additional new features
to be implemented. The Consultant shall provide the man-hour costs for such
activity which can be taken up with mutual agreement.
5.6 Data Onboarding
5.6.1 Track any new datasets that may be released by the source Ministry(ies)/
Organisations as identified in Attachment-I of the RFP or any other source as per the priority
of the Authority
6. TIME AND PAYMENT SCHEDULE
6.1 Time schedule for important Deliverables (the “Key Dates” or “KD”) of the
Consultancy and the payment schedule linked to the specified Deliverables is given
below:
Phase Deliverables /
Milestones
Completion
Timeline
Payment Schedule
(% of fee quoted)
Development Phase
Initiation &
Transition
Project Kick-off
(KD0); Finalization
of Communication
Protocol and
Escalation Matrix;
Inception Report;
Project Plan &
WBS(work break
down structure) and
resource plan
KD0 + 2 weeks -
Initiation &
Transition
Transition Phase
from OTSi (Object
KD0 + 6 weeks 5%

-- 89 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
82 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Technology Solutions
India Pvt. Ltd)
System Study &
Design (NDAP)
Detailed System
Study; Gap Analysis
of NDAP;
Documentation of
Functional &
Technical
Requirements; SRS
Document for
enhanced feature;
Approval of Design
Architecture and
system Blue print ;
Review of Existing
APIs, Datasets,
Metadata Standards
KD0 + 12 weeks 10%
Development &
Customization
(NDAP)
Core Module
Development and
customization ;
Integration of
Enhanced Data
Ingestion pipelines;
Development of
Improved Analytical
Dashboards and
Visualization tools;
Implementation of
Data Quality and
Validation
Framework
KD0 + 36 weeks 10%
Testing & UAT Unit Testing,
Integration Testing &
UAT Testing;
Performance
Benchmarking and
Optimization; Bug
Fixing and final
deployment
Readiness review
KD0 + 40 weeks 10%
Go-Live (NDAP) Deployment of
NDAP in Production
environment; Data
Migration; Go-Live
Sign-off by Authority
KD0 + 48 weeks 10%
Training &
Documentation
Submission of all
Documentation &
Training Materials;
Issues and complain
Resolution Within
One Month of Go-
Live
KD0 + 52 weeks 5%
TOTAL 50%
Operation Phase

-- 90 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
83 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Quarterly
Onboarding
Onboarding New
Datasets Every
Quarter
Quarterly Refer Clause 6.3
Operations &
Maintenance
Completion of
Services under
Clause 5
KD0 + 312 weeks Refer Clause 6.3
Note: The Consultant is required to incorporate and submit a status report on the feedback
received from the Authority at every delivery milestone.
6.2 Payments to be made to the Consultant shall be in accordance with the payment schedule
provided in this Paragraph 5 and shall be divided into two stages:
Development Phase - 50% (fifty per cent) of Agreement Value (Refer Clause 6.1)
Operations Phase - 50% (fifty per cent) of Agreement Value (Refer Clause 6.3)
6.3 Payment to be made for and in respect of the Operations Phase commencing from the
1st (first) anniversary of the Effective Date shall be equal to 50% (fifty per cent) of the
Agreement Value. The payment during Operations Phase shall be released on a quarterly
basis for Services rendered during any preceding quarter of the Operations Phase and
shall be equal to 2.5% of the Agreement Value for the 20 (twenty) quarters of the
Operations Phase.
6.4 The Authority shall have the right to withhold any payment due to the Consultant in
case of delays or defaults in the work undertaken by the Consultant. Such withholding
of payment shall not amount to a default on the part of the Authority.
6.5 The phase wise payment shall be made upon receipt of confirmation of satisfactory
delivery, (re-)installation, live running, and service report of Deliverables.
6.6 The Authority shall have the right to add/edit the features listed in Paragraph 2.3 to be
designed and developed by the Consultant. If significant additional costs are associated
with any additional features, then the man day rates specified in the Agreement shall
be used to make additional payments to the Consultant.
6.7 The Additional Costs specified in Annex-V of the Agreement shall be due
and payable in addition to the payments specified in Paragraph 6.2.
6.8 The Consultant shall submit a quarterly statement detailing the aggregate
number of complex queries (as defined under section 3.3.3) processed during
the relevant quarter. Payments shall be released quarterly, subject to
verification and certification by the Authority and shall be limited to the cost
per query quoted in the Financial Proposal. For the purposes of verification
and certification by the Authority, an appropriate user management system
shall be installed by the Consultant in consultation with the Authority to
enable tracking and monitoring of the usage of the AI engine.

-- 91 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
84 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
In the event that the actual number of queries exceeds the estimated volume of 24,000
queries per year, the payment for these additional queries beyond the said limit shall be
adjusted at the end of the fourth quarter (Q4), shall be made strictly as per actuals, and in
accordance with the cost per query quoted in the Financial Proposal.
7. MEETINGS
Regular review meetings with the Consultant shall be conducted at the Authority
office on a fortnightly basis. The expenses towards attending such meetings during
the period of Consultancy shall be borne by the Consultant. At least one of the Key
Personnel shall participate in every such meeting.
8. CONSULTANCY TEAM
8.1 The Consultant shall form a multi-disciplinary team (the “Consultancy Team”)
for undertaking this assignment. The following Key Personnel whose experience
and responsibilities are briefly described herein would be considered for
evaluation of the Technical Proposal. Other expertise required shall be included in
the Team either through the Key Personnel specified below or through other
Professional Personnel, as necessary
(a) Program Chairperson
Educational
Qualifications
Master’s in Computer Science / AI / ML, or related quantitative
disciplines
Essential Experience 15 years
Job Responsibilities • Provide high-level guidance to research teams on methodology,
risks and long-term impact
• Steer the project’s strategic direction by shaping priorities,
reviewing key decisions, and refining the overall approach
Minimum time required
on the Project
He/she will spend at least 15 man-days per month on the project
until Go-Live of NDAP and 3 man-days per month thereafter until
project closure
(b) Project Director &Team Leader
Educational
Qualifications
Master’s in Engineering / Management / Public Policy
Essential Experience 10 years

-- 92 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
85 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Job Responsibilities • He/she will lead, co-ordinate and supervise the Project.
• He/she will also be the nodal person responsible for dealing with
the Authority.
• Lead cross-team reviews to drive decisions and maintain delivery
velocity.
• Manage govt. stakeholder alignment, risks, and dynamic
escalations.
Minimum time required
on the Project
He/she will spend at least 15 man-days per month on the project
until Go-Live of NDAP and 5 man-days per month thereafter until
project closure
(c) Principal AI Architect
Educational
Qualifications
Master’s in Computer Science/ IT/ AI/ ML, or related field
Essential Experience 10 years
Job Responsibilities • Oversee AI system design, integrations, and platform-level
architecture decisions.
• Monitor scalability, cost, reliability, and drive improvements.
Minimum time required
on the Project
He/she will spend at least 15 man-days per month on the project
until Go-Live of NDAP and 5 man-days per month thereafter until
project closure
(d) Principal program manager
Educational
Qualifications
Bachelor’s or Master’s in Engineering/ Management
Essential Experience 7 years
Job Responsibilities • Run PMO governance—track milestones, risks, vendor
performance.
• Coordinate deployments, UAT, field trials, and compliance.

-- 93 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
86 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Minimum time required
on the Project
He/she will spend at least 15 man-days per month on the project
until Go-Live of NDAP and 5 man-days per month thereafter until
project closure
(e) Principal Product Manager
Educational
Qualifications Bachelor’s or Master’s in Engineering/ Management
Essential Experience 7 years
Job Responsibilities
• Conduct operator discovery and create PRDs.
• Review usage/accuracy metrics and coordinate iterative releases.
Minimum time required
on the Project
He/she will spend at least 15 man-days per month on the project
until Go-Live of NDAP and 5 man-days per month thereafter until
project closure
(f) Data Scientist (AI and Analytics)
Educational
Qualifications
Bachelor’s or Master’s in Data Science/ Statistics/ Computer
Science, or related field
Essential Experience 3-5 years
Job Responsibilities
• Develop and train AI models for multilingual search, natural
language query, auto-visualization, and anomaly detection.
• Support analytics model development and data-driven insights,
refining features and ensuring production grade performance
Minimum time required
on the Project
He/she will spend at least 15 man-days per month on the project
until Go-Live of NDAP and 5 man-days per month thereafter until
project closure
(g) Technical Lead
Educational
Qualifications Bachelor’s or Master’s in Data Science/ Analytics/ related field
Essential Experience 3-5 years

-- 94 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
87 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Job Responsibilities
• Architect and implement end-to-end visualisation and self-serve
analytics platform
• Establish analytical workflows, semantic layers, and dashboard
standards
Minimum time required
on the Project
He/she will spend at least 15 man-days per month on the project
until Go-Live of NDAP and 5 man-days per month thereafter until
project closure
(h) Usability Lead
Educational
Qualifications
Bachelor’s or Master’s in UX Design/ Interaction Design, or related
field
Essential Experience 3-5 years
Job responsibilities • Drive UX strategy to deliver an intuitive, operator-friendly portal
through structured testing and rapid prototyping
• Drive and enforce UI/UX patterns and accessibility standards to
ensure seamless experience across modules
Minimum time required
on the Project
He/she will spend at least 15 man-days per month on the project
until Go-Live of NDAP and 5 man-days per month thereafter until
project closure
(i) Full Stack Developer (AI Integration)
Educational
Qualifications Bachelor’s or Master’s in Computer Science, IT, or related field
Essential Experience 3-5 years
Job Responsibilities
• Develop and maintain front-end and back-end components for AI
interfaces
• Ensure seamless user experience and system performance with
stable integrations across systems
Minimum time required
on the Project
He/she will spend at least 15 man-days per month on the project
until Go-Live of NDAP and 5 man-days per month thereafter until
project closure

-- 95 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
88 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
(b) In addition to the 9 (nine) Key Personnel who would be evaluated, the ‘Professional
Personnel’ of the team should also comprise of at least 1 (one) Economist and 1
(one) Statistician who have experience with government datasets (such as reports
included in Indicative list at Attachment–I). The Consultant is expected to deploy
additional resources required to implement this project within the timelines
specified in this RFP. However, these personnel would also not be evaluated.
The tentative profiles include, but are not limited to:
i. Enterprise Architect
ii. AI/ML Engineer/Developer
iii. Data Architect
iv. Microservice Architect
v. Network Architect
vi. Risk and Security Expert
vii. Database Administrator
viii. API Developer
ix. Full Stack Developer
x. UI/UX Designer
xi. QA Tester
xii. Business Intelligence Developer
xiii. Data Science Expert etc.
8.2 The Consultant shall establish a Project Office at a suitable location in the National
Capital Region, for efficient and coordinated performance of its Services.
The authorised officials of the Authority may visit the Consultant’s Project Office
any time during office hours for inspection and interaction with the Consultant’s
Personnel. It is not expected of the Consultant to carry out the operations from the
Head/Home Office.
8.3 The Consultant shall mobilise and demobilise its Professional Personnel and
Support Personnel with the concurrence of the Authority and shall maintain the time
sheet/ attendance sheet of the working of all Personnel in the Project Office. These
time sheets/ attendance sheets shall be made available to the Authority as and when
asked for and a copy of such record shall be submitted to the Authority at the end of
each calendar month.
9. REPORTING
9.1 The Consultant will work closely with the Authority. The Authority has established
a Project Management Unit (the “PMU”) to enable conduct of this assignment. A
designated Project Director of the Authority will be responsible for the overall
coordination and project development. He will play a coordinating role in
dissemination of the Consultant’s outputs, facilitating discussions, and ensuring
required reactions and responses to the Consultant.
9.2 The Consultant may prepare Issue Papers highlighting issues that could become

-- 96 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
89 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
critical for the timely completion of the Project and that require attention from the
Authority.
9.3 The Consultant will make a presentation on the Inception Report for discussion with
the PMU at a meeting. This will be a working document. The Consultant is required
to prepare and submit a monthly report that includes and describes, inter alia,
general progress to date; data and reports obtained and reviewed, conclusions to
date, if any; concerns about availability of, or access to, data, analyses, reports;
questions regarding the TOR or any other matters regarding work scope and related
issues; and so on. The Consultants’ work on the TOR tasks should continue while
the report is under consideration and is being discussed.
9.4 Regular communication with the PMU and the Project Director is required in
addition to all key communications. This may take the form of telephone/
teleconferencing, emails, faxes, and occasional meetings.
9.5 The Deliverables will be submitted as per schedule provided in this RFP.
10. DATA TO BE MADE AVAILABLE BY THE AUTHORITY
The Authority shall provide the following to the Consultant:
(a) Link to API’s from where data needs to be fetched.
(b) List of priority sector reports for domains like agriculture, HRD, Healthcare
and Finance, which may be changed by the Authority from time to time.
(c) Link and names of portals from where data need to be fetched by writing
code.
(d) Existing data in machine readable format that can be directly ingested.
(e) Names of various indicators for which data needs to be collected.
(f) LGD (Local Government Directory) Codes for locations across India.
11. COMPLETION OF SERVICES
11.1 All the outputs including primary data shall be compiled, classified and submitted
by the Consultant to the Authority in soft form apart from the reports indicated in
the Deliverables. The outputs shall remain the property of the Authority and shall
not be used for any purpose other than that intended under these Terms of Reference
without the permission of the Authority. The Consultancy shall stand completed on
(a) acceptance by the Authority of all the Deliverables of the Consultant and
completion of all Services or (b) 312 (three hundred and twelve) weeks from the
Effective Date, whichever is earlier. The Authority shall issue a certificate to that
effect. The Consultancy shall in any case be deemed to be completed upon expiry
of 6 (six) years from the Effective Date, unless extended by mutual consent of the
Authority and the Consultant.

-- 97 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
90 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Attachment-I
Indicative List of Reports
Associated
Ministries/Departments/
affiliated bodies
Details of Key Reports/Databases/Surveys Frequency
Agriculture
Department of Agriculture &
Farmers’ Welfare
1. Agricultural Situation in India Report
2. Agricultural Statistics at a Glance Report
3. Horticultural Statistics at a Glance Report
4. State of Indian Agriculture Report
5. Annual Report
6. Horticulture Information Service Statistics
7. Facts & Figures (Indian F & V) Report
8. Agriculture Census in India Report
9. Agricultural Prices in India Report
10. Land Use Statistics at a Glance Report
11. Farm Harvest Prices of Principal Crops in
India Report
12. Reports of CACP and Cost of Cultivation
of Principal Crops in India
13. District-wise Area & Production of
Principal Crops in India
14. Agricultural Wages in India Report
15. Rabi / Kharif Sowing Progress Reports
Annually
Monthly
Annually
Annually
Annually
Daily/Weekly/
Monthly/Annually
Monthly
Once in Five Years
Annually
Annually
Annually
Annually
Annually
Annually
Weekly
Department of Animal
Husbandry, Dairying &
Fisheries
1. Livestock Census Report
2. Basic Animal Husbandry & Fisheries
Statistics Report
3. Annual Report
Once in Five Years
Annually
Annually
Department of Agricultural 1. Indian Journal of Animal Sciences Annually
Research & Education 2. Indian Journal of Agricultural Sciences Annually
3. ICAR Data-book Annually
4. Annual Report of ICAR/DARE Annually

-- 98 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
91 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Agricultural and Processed
Food Products Export
Development Authority
1. APEDA Annual Book
2. MPEDA Monthly Publication
3. Annual Report
Annually
Monthly
Annually
Finance
Ministry of Finance 1. Union Budget
2. Union Budget Documents (Receipts,
Expenditure, FRBM targets)
Annually
Annually
Department of Expenditure 1. Outcome Budget
2. Report on Pay and Allowances
Annually
Annually
Department of Revenue 1. Details on expenditure statements
2. Daily Customs Revenue Report
3. GST Collections Dashboard
Annually
Daily Updated
Monthly
Department of Financial
Services
1. Progress Reports of Pradhan Mantri Jan
Dhan Yojana
2. Annual Report of Pradhan Mantri Mudra
Yojana
3. Financial Stability and Banking Indicators
Monthly
Annually
Annually
Department of Economic
Affairs
1. Economic Survey
2. Public Finance Statistics Report
3. National Summary Data Page (period not
mentioned)
4. Public Debt Management report and
statistics
5. External Debt Report
6. Debt statistics
7. Outcome Budget
8. Central Government Borrowings Report
9. Overseas Direct Investments Report
10. Monthly Economic Report
Annually
Annually
Period not mentioned
Quarterly
Bi-annually
Annually
Annually
Quarterly
Monthly
Monthly

-- 99 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
92 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Reserve Bank of India 1. RBI's database on Indian economy
2. Report on Trend and Progress in Banking
in India
3. Financial Stability Report
4. Monetary Policy Report
5. Foreign Exchange Reserves Report
6. Legal News and Views Report
7. Macroeconomic and Monetary
Developments Report
8. Occasional Papers
9. Quarterly Statistics on Deposits and Credit
of Scheduled Commercial Banks Report
10. Survey of Professional Forecasters -
Results
11. Quarterly Order Books, Inventories and
Capacity Utilisation Survey
12. Quarterly Industrial Outlook Survey
13. Consumer Confidence Survey
14. Variation to Foreign Exchange Reserves in
India Report
15. Inflation Expectations Survey of
Households Report
16. Survey of Professional Forecasters
17. Monetary and Credit Information Review
18. Weekly Statistical Supplement
19. RBI Press Releases (Policy rates, liquidity
updates, sectoral data)
20. Daily Money Market Operations (Liquidity
absorption/injection data)
Weekly/monthly/
quarterly/Annually
Annually
Bi-annually
Bi-annually
Bi-annually
Quarterly
Quarterly
Quarterly
Quarterly
Quarterly
Quarterly
Quarterly
Quarterly
Quarterly
Quarterly
Bi-monthly
Monthly
Weekly
Monthly
Daily
Securities & Exchange
Board of India
1. SEBI's handbook of statistics
2. SEBI’s handbook of statistics on Indian
Securities Market
3. SEBI's data related to Alternate Investment
Funds, Corporate Bonds, Venture Capital
Funds, Foreign Capital Investors, Assets
managed by portfolio managers, corporate
filings
4. Annual Report
Annually
Annually
Annually
Annually
Controller General of
Accounts (CGA)
Union Government Accounts Monthly

-- 100 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
93 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
State Finance Departments State Budgets & Accounts Annually
Health
Department of Health and
Family Welfare
1. National Family Health Survey
2. Rural Health Statistics Report
3. National health accounts
4. Annual Reports of NVBDCP
/NCDC
5. Drugs Survey Report
6. Health Sector Financing report
7. Annual Reports
8. Outcome Budget
9. HMIS Database
Once in 3 years
Annually
Annually
Annually
Biennially
Annually
Annually
Annually
Annually
Department of Health
Research
1. Annual Reports
2. Outcome Budget
Annually
Annually
Indian Council of Medical
Research
1. ICMR Publications and Annual Reports Annually
Integrated Disease
Surveillance Program
1. Annual Report Annually
Central Bureau of Health
Intelligence
1. National Health Profile Annually
Census India 1. SRS Statistical Profile Annually
Ministry of Statistics and
Programme Implementation
1. National Sample Survey – Health Round As determined by the
Authority
Autonomous medical
institutes and bodies
1. Annual Reports Annually
Human Resource Development
School Education and
Literacy (Department and
Autonomous bodies)
1. Educational Statistics at a Glance
2. NAS data from NCERT
3. Annual Reports by Kendriya Vidyalayas,
NVS
4. Shaalakosh Annual Report
5. SSA Annual Report
6. DIKSHA Annual Report
7. Outcome Budget
Annually
Biennially
Annually
Annually
Annually
Annually
Annually
Higher Education 1. All India Survey on Higher Education
2. Swayam Annual Report from AICTE
3. Annual Reports of Autonomous bodies and
Annually
Annually
Annually
Institutions
4. Outcome Budget Annually

-- 101 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
94 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
U-DISE 1. Student Data Capture report
2. State-wise, District wise Report Cards
3. Analytical Reports
4. Flash Statistics Report
5. Elementary Education in Rural and Urban
India Report
Annually
Annually
Annually
Annually
Annually
National Institutional
Ranking Framework
1. Ranking Reports Annually
Others
Ministry of Defence Defence Expenditure & Exports Data Annually
DPIIT 1. FDI Statistics
2. 8 Core Industries Data
Quarterly
Monthly
NSDL FPI Statistics (Equity, Debt inflows) Monthly
IRDAI Insurance Sector Statistics Monthly
PFRDA Pension Fund Data Monthly
Ministry of Commerce 1. Bulletin on Foreign Trade / Export-Import
Statistics
2. Merchandise Trade Data Portal
(EIDB/MEIDB)
Monthly
Ministry of Petroleum 1. Indian Basket Crude Oil Prices (FOB)
2. Indian Basket Crude Oil Price
Daily
Daily
Ministry of Statistics and
Programme Implementation
1. National Accounts Statistics (GDP, GVA,
Sectoral Growth, Macro Aggregates, etc.)
2. Agricultural Statistics (Production, Yield)
3. Index of Industrial Production (IIP)
4. Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS)
Monthly
Annually
Monthly
Quarterly
Tractor and Mechanization
Association (TMA)
Domestic Tractor Sales Data Monthly
Department of Fertilisers
(MoC&F)
Fertiliser Sales and Availability Data Monthly
IMD Rainfall Statistics (Monsoon Reports) Daily
FCI / DoCA Foodgrain Procurement Data Monthly
Ministry of Steel / JPC Steel Consumption and Production Statistics Monthly
SIAM Domestic Auto Sales Data Monthly

-- 102 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
95 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Vahan / MoRTH Vehicle Registration Data Monthly
CEA (Ministry of Power) 1. Power Generation / Consumption Statistics
2. Weekly Power Consumption Data
Weekly
Weekly
DGCA Domestic Air Passenger & Cargo Traffic Monthly
MoRTH / Indian Railways Rail Freight Traffic Statistics Monthly
MoPSW Port Traffic Data Monthly
NPCI UPI Digital Payments Data Daily
GSTN Volume of E-Way Bills Generated Monthly
EPFO Payroll Data (New Subscribers, Net
Additions)
Monthly
Labour Bureau Rural Wage Data Monthly
MSDE (Skill Development
Ministry)
Skill Development Scheme Data (PMKVY,
NAPS)
Quarterly
MoRD MGNREGA Dashboard Data Daily
UPI / NPCI / GSTN / CEA Composite High-Frequency Economic Activity
Indicators
Monthly
Global
IMF / World Bank / OECD WEO, World Development Indicators, OECD
Economic Outlook
Annually
Economic Policy Uncertainty
Database
1. Global and India-specific Policy Uncertainty
Index
2. Global Index Data
Monthly
Monthly
World Bank Poverty and
Inequality Platform
Country Poverty & Inequality Data Annually
Bank for International
Settlements (BIS)
Cross-border Banking Data Quarterly
UNCTAD 1. UNCTAD Stat, World Investment Report
2. Sustainable Investment Reports
Annually
Annually
WITS / UN Comtrade Global Trade Database Annually
OECD CAD Database Current Account and BoP Data Quarterly
LBMA Precious Metal Prices (Gold, Silver) Daily

-- 103 of 198 --

Schedule-1: Terms of Reference
96 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Kiel Trade Indicator Forward-looking Global Trade Projections Monthly
WTO Tariff Profiles & Trade Policy Reviews Annually
MAP.org 1. Multilateral Aid and Project Data
2. Multilateral Aid & Assistance Tracker
Annually
Annually
S&P Global 1. PMI Manufacturing Index
2. PMI Services Index
Monthly
Monthly
ILO ILOStat Employment Indicators Annually
World Bank Poverty and Inequality Platform Annually
ADB India Country Partnership & Financing
Reports
Annual
Global Trade Alert Database Policy Intervention Tracker Monthly
Unstructured datasets from PIB reports, parliamentary questions and their official responses, ministry
annual reports, ministry publications and any other reports to be added subsequently on NDAP as per the
directions of the Authority.

-- 104 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
97 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
SCHEDULE–2
(See Clause 2.1.3)
CONSULTANCY AND SERVICE AGREEMENT
FOR
DEVELOPMENT AND OPERATION OF
NATIONAL DATA AND ANALYTICS PLATFORM PROJECT

-- 105 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
98 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Contents
1. General
1.1 Definitions and Interpretation
1.2 Relation between the Parties
1.3 Rights and Obligations
1.4 Governing law and jurisdiction
1.5 Language
1.6 Table of contents and headings
1.7 Notices
1.8 Location
1.9 Authority of Member-in-Charge
1.10 Authorised representatives
1.11 Taxes and duties
2. Commencement, Completion and Termination of Agreement
2.1 Effectiveness of Agreement
2.2 Commencement of Services
2.3 Termination of Agreement for failure to commence Services
2.4 Expiry of Agreement
2.5 Entire Agreement
2.6 Modification of Agreement
2.7 Force Majeure
2.8 Suspension of Agreement
2.9 Termination of Agreement
2.10 Transfer of rights and interest
3. Obligations of the Consultant
3.1 General
3.2 Conflict of Interest
3.3 Confidentiality
3.4 Liability of the Consultant
3.5 Insurance to be taken out by the Consultant
3.6 Accounting, inspection and auditing
3.7 Consultant’s actions requiring the Authority’s prior approval
3.8 Reporting obligations
3.9 Documents prepared by the Consultant to be the property of the Authority
3.10 Equipment and materials furnished by the Authority
3.11 Providing access to the Project Office and Personnel
3.12 Accuracy of Documents
3.13 Intellectual property

-- 106 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
99 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
3.14 Indemnity
4. Consultant’s Personnel and Sub-Consultant
4.1 General
4.2 Deployment of Personnel
4.3 Approval of Personnel
4.4 Substitution of Key Personnel
4.5 Working hours, overtime, leave etc.
4.6 Project Manager
4.7. Sub-Consultants
5. Obligations of the Authority
5.1 Assistance in clearances etc.
5.2 Access to land and property
5.3 Change in Applicable Law
5.4 Payment
6. Payment to the Consultant
6.1 Cost estimates and Agreement Value
6.2 Currency of payment
6.3 Mode of billing and payment
7. Liquidated damages and penalties
7.1 Performance Security
7.2 Liquidated Damages
7.3 Damages for shortfalls in Service levels
7.4 Penalty for deficiency in Services
8. Fairness and Good Faith
8.1 Good Faith
8.2 Operation of the Agreement
9. Settlement of Disputes
9.1 Amicable settlement
9.2 Dispute resolution
9.3 Conciliation
9.4 Arbitration
Annexes
Annex-1: Terms of Reference
Annex-2: Deployment of Personnel
Annex-3: Estimate of Personnel Costs

-- 107 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
100 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Annex-4: Approved Sub-Consultant(s)
Annex-5: Cost of Services
Annex-6: Payment Schedule
Annex-7: Bank Guarantee for Performance Security
Annex-8: Service Level Agreements

-- 108 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
101 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
AGREEMENT
for Development and Operation of National Data and Analytics Platform (NDAP)
This AGREEMENT (hereinafter called the “Agreement”) is made on the ...........……….
day of the month of................. 20…, between, on the one hand, the President of India acting
through the Chief Executive Officer, NITI Aayog (hereinafter called the “Authority” which
expression shall include their respective successors and permitted assigns, unless the
context otherwise requires) and, on the other hand, ………………………………….
(hereinafter called the “Consultant” which expression shall include their respective
successors and permitted assigns).
WHEREAS
(A) The Authority vide its Request for Proposal for Development and operation of
National Data and Analytics Platform Project (hereinafter called the
“Consultancy”) for the NDAP Project (hereinafter called the “Project”);
(B) the Consultant submitted its proposals for the aforesaid work, whereby the
Consultant represented to the Authority that it had the required professional skills,
and in the said proposals the Consultant also agreed to provide the Services to the
Authority on the terms and conditions as set forth in the RFP and this Agreement;
and
(C) the Authority, on acceptance of the aforesaid proposals of the Consultant, awarded
the Consultancy to the Consultant vide its Letter of Award dated ...................... (the
“LOA”); and
(D) in pursuance of the LOA, the parties have agreed to enter into this Agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
1. GENERAL
1.1 Definitions and Interpretation
1.1.1 The words and expressions beginning with capital letters and defined in this
Agreement shall, unless the context otherwise requires, have the meaning hereinafter
respectively assigned to them:
(a) “Additional Costs” shall have the meaning set forth in Clause 6.1.2;
(b) “Agreement” means this Agreement, together with all the Annexes;
(c) “Agreement Value” shall have the meaning set forth in Clause 6.1.2;
(d) “Applicable Laws” means the laws and any other instruments having the
force of law in India as they may be issued and in force from time to time;
(e) “Confidential Information” shall have the meaning set forth in Clause
3.3;

-- 109 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
102 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
(f) “Conflict of Interest” shall have the meaning set forth in Clause 3.2 read
with the provisions of RFP;
(g) “Dispute” shall have the meaning set forth in Clause 9.2.1;
(h) “Effective Date” means the date on which this Agreement comes into force
and effect pursuant to Clause 2.1;
(i) “Expatriate Personnel” means such persons who at the time of being so
hired had their domicile outside India;
(j) “Government” means the Government of ............. ;
(k) “INR, Re. or Rs.” means Indian Rupees;
(l) “Member”, in case the Consultant consists of a joint venture or consortium
of more than one entity, means any of these entities, and “Members” means
all of these entities;
(m) “Party” means the Authority or the Consultant, as the case may be, and
Parties means both of them;
(n) “Personnel” means persons hired by the Consultant or by any Sub
Consultant as employees and assigned to the performance of the Services or
any part thereof;
(o) “Resident Personnel” means such persons who at the time of being so hired
had their domicile inside India;
(p) “RFP” means the Request for Proposal document in response to which the
Consultant’s proposal for providing Services was accepted;
(q) “Services” means the work to be performed by the Consultant pursuant to
this Agreement, as described in the Terms of Reference hereto;
(r) “Service Level” shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph 1.1 of Annex-
8 of this Agreement;
(s) “SLA” shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph 1.1 of Annex-8 of this
Agreement;
(t) “Sub-Consultant” means any entity to which the Consultant subcontracts
any part of the Services in accordance with the provisions of Clause 4.7; and
(u) “Third Party” means any person or entity other than the Government, the
Authority, the Consultant or a Sub-Consultant.
All terms and words not defined herein shall, unless the context otherwise requires,
have the meaning assigned to them in the RFP.

-- 110 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
103 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
1.1.2 The following documents along with all addenda issued thereto shall be deemed to
form and be read and construed as integral parts of this Agreement and in case of
any contradiction between or among them the priority in which a document would
prevail over another would be as laid down below beginning from the highest
priority to the lowest priority:
(a) Agreement;
(b) Annexes of Agreement;
(c) RFP; and
(d) Letter of Award.
1.2 Relation between the Parties
Nothing contained herein shall be construed as establishing a relation of master and
servant or of agent and principal as between the Authority and the Consultant. The
Consultant shall, subject to this Agreement, have complete charge of Personnel
performing the Services and shall be fully responsible for the Services performed
by them or on their behalf hereunder.
1.3 Rights and obligations
The mutual rights and obligations of the Authority and the Consultant shall be as set
forth in the Agreement, in particular:
(a) the Consultant shall carry out the Services in accordance with the provisions
of the Agreement; and
(b) the Authority shall make payments to the Consultant in accordance with the
provisions of the Agreement.
1.4 Governing law and jurisdiction
This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with and governed
by the laws of India, and the courts in the State in which the Authority has its
headquarters shall have exclusive jurisdiction over matters arising out of or relating
to this Agreement.
1.5 Language
All notices required to be given by one Party to the other Party and all other
communications, documentation and proceedings which are in any way relevant to
this Agreement shall be in writing and in English language.
1.6 Table of contents and headings
The table of contents, headings or sub-headings in this Agreement are for
convenience of reference only and shall not be used in, and shall not affect, the
construction or interpretation of this Agreement.

-- 111 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
104 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
1.7 Notices
Any notice or other communication to be given by any Party to the other Party under
or in connection with the matters contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing
and shall:
(a) in the case of the Consultant, be given by e-mail and by letter delivered by
hand to the address given and marked for attention of the Consultant’s
Representative set out below in Clause 1.10 or to such other person as the
Consultant may from time to time designate by notice to the Authority;
provided that notices or other communications to be given to an address
outside the city specified in Sub-clause (b) below may, if they are
subsequently confirmed by sending a copy thereof by registered
acknowledgement due, air mail or by courier, be sent by e-mail to the
number as the Consultant may from time to time specify by notice to the
Authority;
(b) in the case of the Authority, be given by e-mail and by letter delivered by
hand and be addressed to the Authority with a copy delivered to the
Authority Representative set out below in Clause 1.10 or to such other
person as the Authority may from time to time designate by notice to the
Consultant; provided that if the Consultant does not have an office in the
same city as the Authority’s office, it may send such notice by e-mail and by
registered acknowledgement due, air mail or by courier; and
(c) any notice or communication by a Party to the other Party, given in
accordance herewith, shall be deemed to have been delivered when in the
normal course of post it ought to have been delivered and in all other cases,
it shall be deemed to have been delivered on the actual date and time of
delivery; provided that in the case of e-mail, it shall be deemed to have been
delivered on the working days following the date of its delivery.
1.8 Location
The Services shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of RFP and at
such locations as are incidental thereto, including the offices of the Authority and
the Consultant.
1.9 Authority of Member-in-charge
In case the Consultant consists of a consortium of more than one entity, the Parties
agree that the Lead Member shall act on behalf of the Members in exercising all the
Consultant’s rights and obligations towards the Authority under this Agreement,
including without limitation the receiving of instructions and payments from the
Authority.

-- 112 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
105 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
1.10 Authorised Representatives
1.10.1 Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required or permitted
to be executed, under this Agreement by the Authority or the Consultant, as the case
may be, may be taken or executed by the officials specified in this Clause 1.10.
1.10.2 The Authority may, from time to time, designate one of its officials as the Authority
Representative. Unless otherwise notified, the Authority Representative shall be:
..........
..........
Tel: ..........
Mobile: ..........
Email: ..........
1.10.3 The Consultant may designate one of its employees as Consultant’s Representative.
Unless otherwise notified, the Consultant’s Representative shall be:
..........
..........
Tel: ..........
Mobile: ..........
Email: ..........
1.11 Taxes and duties
Unless otherwise specified in the Agreement, the Consultant shall pay all such taxes,
duties, fees and other impositions as may be levied under the Applicable Laws and
the Authority shall perform such duties in regard to the deduction of such taxes as
may be lawfully imposed on it.
2. COMMENCEMENT, COMPLETION AND TERMINATION OF
AGREEMENT
2.1 Effectiveness of Agreement
This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date of this Agreement (the
“Effective Date”).
2.2 Commencement of Services
The Consultant shall commence the Services within a period of 7 (seven) days from
the Effective Date, unless otherwise agreed by the Parties.

-- 113 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
106 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
2.3 Termination of Agreement for failure to commence Services
If the Consultant does not commence the Services within the period specified in
Clause 2.2 above, the Authority may, by not less than 2 (two) weeks’ notice to the
Consultant, declare this Agreement to be null and void, and in the event of such a
declaration, the Bid Security of the Consultant shall stand forfeited.
2.4 Expiry of Agreement
Unless terminated earlier pursuant to Clauses 2.3 or 2.9 hereof, this Agreement shall,
unless extended by the Parties by mutual consent, expire upon the earlier of (i)
expiry of a period of 90 (ninety) days after the delivery of the final deliverable to
the Authority during the Operations Period; and (ii) the expiry of 6 (six) years from
the Effective Date. Upon Termination, the Authority shall make payments of all
amounts due to the Consultant hereunder.
2.5 Entire Agreement
2.5.1 This Agreement and the Annexes together constitute a complete and exclusive
statement of the terms of the agreement between the Parties on the subject hereof,
and no amendment or modification hereto shall be valid and effective unless such
modification or amendment is agreed to in writing by the Parties and duly executed
by persons especially empowered in this behalf by the respective Parties. All prior
written or oral understandings, offers or other communications of every kind
pertaining to this Agreement are abrogated and withdrawn; provided, however, that
the obligations of the Consultant arising out of the provisions of the RFP shall
continue to subsist and shall be deemed to form part of this Agreement.
2.5.2 Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of Clause 2.5.1, on matters not
covered by this Agreement, the provisions of RFP shall apply.
2.6 Modification of Agreement
Modification of the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including any
modification of the scope of the Services, may only be made by written agreement
between the Parties. Pursuant to Clauses 4.2.3 and 6.1.3 hereof, however, each Party
shall give due consideration to any proposals for modification made by the other
Party.
2.7 Force Majeure
2.7.1 Definition
(a) For the purposes of this Agreement, “Force Majeure” means an event which
is beyond the reasonable control of a Party, and which makes a Party’s
performance of its obligations hereunder impossible or so impractical as
reasonably to be considered impossible in the circumstances, and includes,
but is not limited to, war, riots, civil disorder, earthquake, fire, explosion,
storm, flood or other adverse weather conditions, strikes, lockouts or other

-- 114 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
107 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
industrial action (except where such strikes, lockouts or other industrial
action are within the power of the Party invoking Force Majeure to prevent),
confiscation or any other action by government agencies.
(b) Force Majeure shall not include (i) any event which is caused by the
negligence or intentional action of a Party or such Party’s Sub-Consultant or
agents or employees, nor (ii) any event which a diligent Party could
reasonably have been expected to both (A) take into account at the time of
the conclusion of this Agreement, and (B) avoid or overcome in the carrying
out of its obligations hereunder.
(c) Force Majeure shall not include insufficiency of funds or failure to make any
payment required hereunder.
2.7.2 No breach of Agreement
The failure of a Party to fulfil any of its obligations hereunder shall not be considered
to be a breach of, or default under, this Agreement insofar as such inability arises
from an event of Force Majeure, provided that the Party affected by such an event
has taken all reasonable precautions, due care and reasonable alternative measures,
all with the objective of carrying out the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
2.7.3 Measures to be taken
(a) A Party affected by an event of Force Majeure shall take all reasonable
measures to remove such Party’s inability to fulfil its obligations hereunder
with a minimum of delay.
(b) A Party affected by an event of Force Majeure shall notify the other Party of
such event as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 14 (fourteen)
days following the occurrence of such event, providing evidence of the
nature and cause of such event, and shall similarly give notice of the
restoration of normal conditions as soon as possible.
(c) The Parties shall take all reasonable measures to minimise the consequences
of any event of Force Majeure.
2.7.4 Extension of time
Any period within which a Party shall, pursuant to this Agreement, complete any
action or task, shall be extended for a period equal to the time during which such
Party was unable to perform such action as a result of Force Majeure.
2.7.5 Payments
During the period of its inability to perform the Services as a result of an event of
Force Majeure, the Consultant shall be entitled to be reimbursed for additional costs
reasonably and necessarily incurred by it during such period for the purposes of the
Services and in reactivating the Services after the end of such period.

-- 115 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
108 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
2.7.6 Consultation
Not later than 30 (thirty) days after the Consultant has, as the result of an event of
Force Majeure, become unable to perform a material portion of the Services, the
Parties shall consult with each other with a view to agreeing on appropriate
measures to be taken in the circumstances.
2.8 Suspension of Agreement
The Authority may, by written notice of suspension to the Consultant, suspend all
payments to the Consultant hereunder if the Consultant shall be in breach of this
Agreement or shall fail to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement,
including the carrying out of the Services; provided that such notice of suspension
(i) shall specify the nature of the breach or failure, and (ii) shall provide an
opportunity to the Consultant to remedy such breach or failure within a period not
exceeding 30 (thirty) days after receipt by the Consultant of such notice of
suspension.
2.9 Termination of Agreement
2.9.1 By the Authority
The Authority may, by not less than 30 (thirty) days’ written notice of termination
to the Consultant, such notice to be given after the occurrence of any of the events
specified in this Clause 2.9.1, terminate this Agreement if:
(a) the Consultant fails to remedy any breach hereof or any failure in the
performance of its obligations hereunder, as specified in a notice of suspension
pursuant to Clause 2.8 hereinabove, within 30 (thirty) days of receipt of such
notice of suspension or within such further period as the Authority may have
subsequently granted in writing;
(b) the Consultant becomes insolvent or bankrupt or enters into any agreement
with its creditors for relief of debt or take advantage of any law for the benefit
of debtors or goes into liquidation or receivership whether compulsory or
voluntary;
(c) the Consultant fails to comply with any final decision reached as a result of
arbitration proceedings pursuant to Clause 9 hereof;
(d) the Consultant submits to the Authority a statement which has a material effect
on the rights, obligations or interests of the Authority and which the
Consultant knows to be false;
(e) any document, information, data or statement submitted by the Consultant in
its Proposals, based on which the Consultant was considered eligible or
successful, is found to be false, incorrect or misleading;

-- 116 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
109 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
(f) as the result of Force Majeure, the Consultant is unable to perform a material
portion of the Services for a period of not less than 60 (sixty) days; or
(g) the Authority, in its sole discretion and for any reason whatsoever, decides to
terminate this Agreement.
2.9.2 By the Consultant
The Consultant may, by not less than 30 (thirty) days’ written notice to the Authority,
such notice to be given after the occurrence of any of the events specified in this
Clause 2.9.2, terminate this Agreement if:
(a) the Authority fails to pay any money due to the Consultant pursuant to this
Agreement and not subject to dispute pursuant to Clause 9 hereof within 45
(forty five) days after receiving written notice from the Consultant that such
payment is overdue;
(b) the Authority is in material breach of its obligations pursuant to this
Agreement and has not remedied the same within 45 (forty five) days (or
such longer period as the Consultant may have subsequently granted in
writing) following the receipt by the Authority of the Consultant’s notice
specifying such breach;
(c) as the result of Force Majeure, the Consultant is unable to perform a material
portion of the Services for a period of not less than 60 (sixty) days; or
(d) the Authority fails to comply with any final decision reached as a result of
arbitration pursuant to Clause 9 hereof.
2.9.3 Cessation of rights and obligations
Upon termination of this Agreement pursuant to Clauses 2.3 or 2.9 hereof, or upon
expiration of this Agreement pursuant to Clause 2.4 hereof, all rights and obligations
of the Parties hereunder shall cease, except (i) such rights and obligations as may
have accrued on the date of termination or expiration, or which expressly survive
such Termination; (ii) the obligation of confidentiality set forth in Clause 3.3 hereof;
(iii) the Consultant’s obligation to permit inspection, copying and auditing of such
of its accounts and records set forth in Clause 3.6, as relate to the Consultant’s
Services provided under this Agreement; and (iv) any right or remedy which a Party
may have under this Agreement or the Applicable Law.
2.9.4 Cessation of Services
Upon termination of this Agreement by notice of either Party to the other pursuant
to Clauses 2.9.1 or 2.9.2 hereof, the Consultant shall, immediately upon dispatch or
receipt of such notice, take all necessary steps to bring the Services to a close in a
prompt and orderly manner and shall make every reasonable effort to keep
expenditures for this purpose to a minimum. With respect to documents prepared by

-- 117 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
110 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
the Consultant and equipment and materials furnished by the Authority, the
Consultant shall proceed as provided respectively by Clauses 3.9 or 3.10 hereof.
2.9.5 Payment upon Termination
Upon termination of this Agreement pursuant to Clauses 2.9.1 or 2.9.2 hereof, the
Authority shall make the following payments to the Consultant (after offsetting
against these payments any amount that may be due from the Consultant to the
Authority):
(i) remuneration pursuant to Clause 6 hereof for Services satisfactorily
performed prior to the date of termination;
(ii) reimbursable expenditures pursuant to Clause 6 hereof for expenditures
actually incurred prior to the date of termination; and
(iii) except in the case of termination pursuant to sub-clauses (a) through (e) of
Clause 2.9.1 hereof, reimbursement of any reasonable cost incidental to the
prompt and orderly termination of the Agreement including the cost of the
return travel of the Consultant’s personnel.
2.9.6 Disputes about Events of Termination
If either Party disputes whether an event specified in Clause 2.9.1 or in Clause 2.9.2
hereof has occurred, such Party may, within 30 (thirty) days after receipt of notice
of termination from the other Party, refer the matter to arbitration pursuant to Clause
9 hereof, and this Agreement shall not be terminated on account of such event except
in accordance with the terms of any resulting arbitral award.
2.10 Transfer of rights and interest
2.10.1 Prior to or upon Termination, as the case may be, the Consultant shall comply with
and conform to the following transfer requirements (the “Transfer
Requirements”):
(a) notify to the Authority forthwith the particulars of all NDAP assets;
(b) deliver forthwith the actual or constructive possession of the NDAP Portal
to the Authority or its nominee;
(c) develop and prepare a transition plan, including risk mitigating measures, in
consultation with the Authority, for smooth transition on Termination;
(d) deliver and transfer all Consultancy Documents specified in Clause 3.9.1,
including relevant Portal documentation, Training Document and Training
Videos, System Architecture, Database design, Source Code, Taxonomy and
meta-data information, Analytical models and their documentation (Natural
Language, Information Extraction, etc.), related username and passwords to
the system, Maintenance Schedule, Intellectual Property and other licences

-- 118 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
111 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
pertaining to the NDAP, including all programmes and manuals pertaining
thereto, as on the Transfer Date. For the avoidance of doubt, the Consultant
represents and warrants that the Intellectual Property delivered hereunder
shall be adequate and complete for the operation and maintenance of the
NDAP and shall be assigned to the Authority free of any Encumbrance,
accompanied by a license in perpetuity to use/ sublicense the tools
developed by the Consultant, at no cost or fee. Provided, however, that the
Consultant may retain the right to use tools for which the Intellectual
Property is transferred hereunder;
(e) transfer and/or deliver all Applicable Permits and licenses to the extent
permissible under Applicable Laws;
(f) provide technical assistance and shadow support to the Authority to facilitate
data transition (include the migration of user addresses, user credentials,
saved messages, all inbound messages, and any other processes necessary to
carry out complete knowledge transfer) to the Authority or its nominee;
(g) execute such deeds of conveyance, documents and other writings as the
Authority may reasonably require for conveying, transferring and assigning
all the rights, title and interest of the Consultant in the NDAP, absolutely
unto the Authority or its nominee; and
(h) comply with all other requirements as may be prescribed or required under
Applicable Laws for completing the transfer and assignment of all rights,
title and interest of the Consultant in the NDAP, free from all Encumbrances,
absolutely unto the Authority or to its nominee, as the case may be, so as to
ensure that the Authority or its nominee, has exclusive access to and control
of the NDAP data in a format that is reasonably acceptable and without any
additional cost to the Authority.
2.10.2 Subject to the exercise by the Authority of its rights under this Agreement to perform
or procure the performance by a third party of any of the obligations of the
Consultant, the Parties shall continue to perform their obligations under this
Agreement, notwithstanding the issuance of any Termination Notice, until the
Termination of this Agreement becomes effective in accordance with its terms.
2.10.3 Cooperation and assistance on transfer of NDAP
2.10.3.1 The Parties shall cooperate on a best effort basis and take all necessary measures,
in good faith, to achieve a smooth transfer of the NDAP in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement so as to ensure and procure the continuity, safety and
security of NDAP.
2.10.3.2 The Parties shall provide to each other, 6 (six) months prior to the Transfer Date in
the event of Termination by efflux of time and immediately in the event of either
Party conveying to the other Party its intent to issue a Termination Notice, as the
case may be, as much information and advice as is reasonably practicable regarding

-- 119 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
112 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
the proposed arrangements for operation of the NDAP following the Transfer Date.
The Consultant shall further provide such reasonable advice and assistance as the
Authority, its consultants or agents may reasonably require for operation of the
NDAP until the expiry of 6 (six) months after the Transfer Date.
2.10.4 Transfer Certificate
The transfer of all rights, title and interest in the NDAP shall be deemed to be
complete on the date when all of the Transfer Requirements have been fulfilled, and
the Authority shall, without unreasonable delay, thereupon issue a certificate
(the “Transfer Certificate”), which will have the effect of constituting evidence of
transfer by the Consultant of all of its rights, title and interest in the NDAP, and their
vesting in the Authority pursuant hereto. It is expressly agreed that any defect or
deficiency in the Transfer Requirements shall not in any manner be construed or
interpreted as restricting the exercise of any rights by the Authority or its nominee
on, or in respect of, the NDAP on the footing that all Transfer Requirements have
been complied with by the Consultant.
2.10.5 Transfer costs etc.
2.10.5.1 The Consultant shall bear and pay all costs incidental to transfer of all of the rights,
title and interest of the Consultant in the NDAP in favour of the Authority upon
Termination, save and except that all stamp duties payable on any deeds or
Documents executed by the Consultant in connection with such transfer shall be
borne by the Authority, save and except as provided in Clause 2.9.5.
2.10.5.2 In the event of any Dispute relating to matters covered by and under the Transfer
Requirements, the procedure specified in Clause 9 shall apply.
3. OBLIGATIONS OF THE CONSULTANT
3.1 General
3.1.1 Standards of Performance
The Consultant shall perform the Services and carry out its obligations hereunder
with all due diligence, efficiency and economy, in accordance with generally
accepted professional techniques and practices, and shall observe sound
management practices, and employ appropriate advanced technology and safe and
effective equipment, machinery, materials and methods. The Consultant shall
always act, in respect of any matter relating to this Agreement or to the Services, as
a faithful adviser to the Authority, and shall at all times support and safeguard the
Authority's legitimate interests in any dealings with Sub-Consultants or Third
Parties.
3.1.2 Terms of Reference
The scope of services to be performed by the Consultant is specified in the Terms
of Reference (the “TOR”) at Annex-1 of this Agreement. The Consultant shall

-- 120 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
113 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
provide the Deliverables specified therein in conformity with the time schedule
stated therein.
3.1.3 Service Levels
The Consultant shall ensure and procure that its Services conform with the
parameters and levels of service specified in the Service Level Agreement (the
“SLA”) at Annex-8 hereof and expressly agrees that in the event of any shortfall, it
shall pay the Damages specified therein to the Authority.
3.1.4 Applicable Laws
The Consultant shall perform the Services in accordance with the Applicable Laws
and shall take all practicable steps to ensure that any Sub-Consultant, as well as the
Personnel and agents of the Consultant and any Sub-Consultant, comply with the
Applicable Laws.
3.2 Conflict of Interest
3.2.1 The Consultant shall not have a Conflict of Interest and any breach hereof shall
constitute a breach of the Agreement.
3.2.2 Consultant and Affiliates not to be otherwise interested in the Project
The Consultant agrees that, during the term of this Agreement and after its
termination, the Consultant or any Associate thereof and any entity affiliated with
the Consultant, as well as any Sub-Consultant and any entity affiliated with such
Sub-Consultant, shall be disqualified from providing goods, works, services, loans
or equity for any project resulting from or closely related to the Services and any
breach of this obligation shall amount to a Conflict of Interest; provided that the
restriction herein shall not apply after a period of six years from the completion of
this assignment or to consulting assignments granted by banks/ lenders at any time;
provided further that this restriction shall not apply to consultancy/ advisory services
provided to the Authority in continuation of this Consultancy or to any subsequent
consultancy/ advisory services provided to the Authority in accordance with the
rules of the Authority. For the avoidance of doubt, an entity affiliated with the
Consultant shall include a partner in the Consultant’s firm or a person who holds more
than 5% (five per cent) of the subscribed and paid up share capital of the Consultant,
as the case may be, and any Associate thereof.
3.2.3 Prohibition of conflicting activities
Neither the Consultant nor its Sub-Consultant nor the Personnel of either of them
shall engage, either directly or indirectly, in any of the following activities:
(a) during the term of this Agreement, any business or professional activities
which would conflict with the activities assigned to them under this
Agreement;

-- 121 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
114 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
(b) after the termination of this Agreement, such other activities as may be
specified in the Agreement; or
(c) at any time, such other activities as have been specified in the RFP as
Conflict of Interest.
3.2.4 Consultant not to benefit from commissions, discounts, etc.
The remuneration of the Consultant pursuant to Clause 6 hereof shall constitute the
Consultant’s sole remuneration in connection with this Agreement or the Services
and the Consultant shall not accept for its own benefit any trade commission,
discount or similar payment in connection with activities pursuant to this Agreement
or to the Services or in the discharge of its obligations hereunder, and the Consultant
shall use its best efforts to ensure that any Sub-Consultant, as well as the Personnel
and agents of either of them, similarly shall not receive any such additional
remuneration.
3.2.5 The Consultant and its Personnel shall observe the highest standards of ethics and
shall not have engaged in and shall not hereafter engage in any corrupt practice,
fraudulent practice, coercive practice, undesirable practice or restrictive practice
(collectively the “Prohibited Practices”). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in this Agreement, the Authority shall be entitled to terminate this
Agreement forthwith by a communication in writing to the Consultant, without
being liable in any manner whatsoever to the Consultant, if it determines that the
Consultant has, directly or indirectly or through an agent, engaged in any Prohibited
Practices in the Selection Process or before or after entering into of this Agreement.
In such an event, the Authority shall forfeit and appropriate the performance
security, if any, as mutually agreed genuine pre-estimated compensation and
damages payable to the Authority towards, inter alia, the time, cost and effort of the
Authority, without prejudice to the Authority’s any other rights or remedy hereunder
or in law.
3.2.6 Without prejudice to the rights of the Authority under Clause 3.2.5 above and the
other rights and remedies which the Authority may have under this Agreement, if
the Consultant is found by the Authority to have directly or indirectly or through an
agent, engaged or indulged in any Prohibited Practices, during the Selection Process
or before or after the execution of this Agreement, the Consultant shall not be
eligible to participate in any tender or RFP issued during a period of 2 (two) years
from the date the Consultant is found by the Authority to have directly or indirectly
or through an agent, engaged or indulged in any Prohibited Practices.
3.2.7 For the purposes of Clauses 3.2.5 and 3.2.6, the following terms shall have the
meaning hereinafter respectively assigned to them:
(a) “corrupt practice” means (i) the offering, giving, receiving or soliciting,
directly or indirectly, of anything of value to influence the actions of any
person connected with the Selection Process (for removal of doubt, offering
of employment or employing or engaging in any manner whatsoever,

-- 122 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
115 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
directly or indirectly, any official of the Authority who is or has been
associated in any manner, directly or indirectly with Selection Process or
LOA or dealing with matters concerning the Agreement before or after the
execution thereof, at any time prior to the expiry of one year from the date
such official resigns or retires from or otherwise ceases to be in the service
of the Authority, shall be deemed to constitute influencing the actions of a
person connected with the Selection Process); or (ii) engaging in any manner
whatsoever, whether during the Selection Process or after the issue of LOA
or after the execution of the Agreement, as the case may be, any person in
respect of any matter relating to the Project or the LOA or the Agreement,
who at any time has been or is a legal, financial or technical adviser the
Authority in relation to any matter concerning the Project;
(b) “fraudulent practice” means a misrepresentation or omission of facts or
suppression of facts or disclosure of incomplete facts, in order to influence
the Selection Process;
(c) “coercive practice” means impairing or harming, or threatening to impair
or harm, directly or indirectly, any person or property to influence any
person’s participation or action in the Selection Process or the exercise of its
rights or performance of its obligations by the Authority under this
Agreement;
(d) “undesirable practice” means (i) establishing contact with any person
connected with or employed or engaged by the Authority with the objective
of canvassing, lobbying or in any manner influencing or attempting to
influence the Selection Process; or (ii) having a Conflict of Interest; and
(e) “restrictive practice” means forming a cartel or arriving at any
understanding or arrangement among Applicants with the objective of
restricting or manipulating a full and fair competition in the Selection
Process.
3.3 Confidentiality
The Consultant, its Sub-Consultants and the Personnel of either of them shall not,
either during the term or within two years after the expiration or termination of this
Agreement disclose any proprietary information, including information relating to
reports, data, drawings, design software or other material, whether written or oral,
in electronic or magnetic format, and the contents thereof; and any reports, digests
or summaries created or derived from any of the foregoing that is provided by the
Authority to the Consultant, its Sub-Consultants and the Personnel; any information
provided by or relating to the Authority, its technology, technical processes, business
affairs or finances or any information relating to the Authority’s employees, officers
or other professionals or suppliers, customers, or contractors of the Authority; and
any other information which the Consultant is under an obligation to keep
confidential in relation to the Project, the Services or this Agreement ("Confidential
Information"), without the prior written consent of the Authority.

-- 123 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
116 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Notwithstanding the aforesaid, the Consultant, its Sub-Consultants and the
Personnel of either of them may disclose Confidential Information to the extent that
such Confidential Information:
(i) was in the public domain prior to its delivery to the Consultant, its Sub-
Consultants and the Personnel of either of them or becomes a part of the
public knowledge from a source other than the Consultant, its Sub-
Consultants and the Personnel of either of them;
(ii) was obtained from a third party with no known duty to maintain its
confidentiality;
(iii) is required to be disclosed by Applicable Laws or judicial or administrative
or arbitral process or by any governmental instrumentalities, provided that
for any such disclosure, the Consultant, its Sub-Consultants and the
Personnel of either of them shall give the Authority, prompt written notice,
and use reasonable efforts to ensure that such disclosure is accorded
confidential treatment; and
(iv) is provided to the professional advisers, agents, auditors or representatives
of the Consultant or its Sub-Consultants or Personnel of either of them, as is
reasonable under the circumstances; provided, however, that the Consultant
or its Sub-Consultants or Personnel of either of them, as the case may be,
shall require their professional advisers, agents, auditors or its
representatives, to undertake in writing to keep such Confidential
Information, confidential and shall use its best efforts to ensure compliance
with such undertaking.
3.4 Liability of the Consultant
3.4.1 The Consultant’s liability under this Agreement shall be determined by the
Applicable Laws and the provisions hereof.
3.4.2 The Consultant shall, subject to the limitation specified in Clause 3.4.3, be liable to
the Authority for any direct loss or damage accrued or likely to accrue due to
deficiency in Services rendered by it. For the avoidance of doubt, the Parties agree
that the aggregate liability of the Consultant to the Authority for and in respect of
any and all breaches by the Consultant as specified in Clause 3.14 (a) (iv), together
with the liability as specified in this Clause 3.4 shall not exceed a limit equal to the
Agreement Value.
3.4.3 The Parties hereto agree that in case of negligence or wilful misconduct on the part
of the Consultant or on the part of any person or firm acting on behalf of the
Consultant in carrying out the Services, the Consultant, with respect to damage
caused to the Authority’s property, shall not be liable to the Authority:
(i) for any indirect or consequential loss or damage; and

-- 124 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
117 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
(ii) for any direct loss or damage that exceeds (a) the Agreement Value set forth
in Clause 6.1.2 of this Agreement, or (b) the proceeds the Consultant may
be entitled to receive from any insurance maintained by the Consultant to
cover such a liability in accordance with Clause 3.5.2, whichever of (a) or
(b) is higher.
3.4.4 This limitation of liability specified in Clause 3.4.3 shall not affect the Consultant’s
liability, if any, for damage to Third Parties caused by the Consultant or any person
or firm acting on behalf of the Consultant in carrying out the Services subject,
however, to a limit equal to the Agreement Value.
3.5 Insurance to be taken out by the Consultant
3.5.1 (a) The Consultant shall, for the duration of this Agreement, take out and maintain,
and shall cause any Sub-Consultant to take out and maintain, at its
(or the Sub-Consultant’s, as the case may be) own cost, but on terms and
conditions approved by the Authority, insurance against the risks, and for the
coverages, as specified in the Agreement and in accordance with good
industry practice.
(b) Within 15 (fifteen) days of receiving any insurance policy certificate in respect
of insurances required to be obtained and maintained under this clause, the
Consultant shall furnish to the Authority, copies of such policy certificates,
copies of the insurance policies and evidence that the insurance premia have
been paid in respect of such insurance. No insurance shall be cancelled,
modified or allowed to expire or lapse during the term of this Agreement.
(c) If the Consultant fails to effect and keep in force the aforesaid insurances for
which it is responsible pursuant hereto, the Authority shall, apart from having
other recourse available under this Agreement, have the option, without
prejudice to the obligations of the Consultant, to take out the aforesaid
insurance, to keep in force any such insurances, and pay such premia and
recover the costs thereof from the Consultant, and the Consultant shall be
liable to pay such amounts on demand by the Authority.
(d) Except in case of Third Party liabilities, the insurance policies so procured
shall mention the Authority as the beneficiary of the Consultant and the
Consultant shall procure an undertaking from the insurance company to this
effect; provided that in the event the Consultant has a general insurance policy
that covers the risks specified in this Agreement and the amount of insurance
cover is equivalent to the Agreement Value, such insurance policy may not
mention the Authority as the sole beneficiary of the Consultant or require an
undertaking to that effect.
3.5.2 The Parties agree that the risks and coverages shall include but not be limited to the
following:

-- 125 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
118 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
(a) Third Party liability insurance as required under Applicable Laws, with a
minimum coverage of Rs. 2 (two) crore;
(b) employer’s liability and workers’ compensation insurance in respect of the
Personnel of the Consultant and of any Sub-Consultant, in accordance with
Applicable Laws; and
(c) professional liability insurance for an amount no less than the Agreement
Value.
The indemnity limit in terms of “Any One Accident” (AOA) and “Aggregate limit
on the policy period” (AOP) should not be less than the amount stated in Clause
6.1.2 of the Agreement. In case of consortium, the policy should be in the name of
Lead Member and not in the name of individual Members of the consortium.
3.6 Accounting, inspection and auditing
The Consultant shall:
(a) keep accurate and systematic accounts and records in respect of the Services
provided under this Agreement, in accordance with internationally accepted
accounting principles and in such form and detail as will clearly identify all
relevant time charges and cost, and the basis thereof (including the basis of
the Consultant’s costs and charges); and
(b) submit the above accounts to the Authority or its designated representative
periodically, and up to one year from the expiration or termination of this
Agreement, to enable the Authority to have them audited by auditors
appointed by the Authority.
3.7 Consultant’s actions requiring the Authority's prior approval
The Consultant shall obtain the Authority's prior approval in writing before taking
any of the following actions:
(a) appointing such members of the Professional Personnel as are not listed in
Annex–2.
(b) entering into a subcontract for the performance of any part of the Services, it
being understood (i) that the selection of the Sub-Consultant and the terms
and conditions of the subcontract shall have been approved in writing by the
Authority prior to the execution of the subcontract, and (ii) that the
Consultant shall remain fully liable for the performance of the Services by
the Sub-Consultant and its Personnel pursuant to this Agreement; or
(c) any other action that is specified in this Agreement.

-- 126 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
119 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
3.8 Reporting obligations
The Consultant shall submit to the Authority the reports and documents specified in
the Agreement, in the form, in the numbers and within the time periods set forth
therein.
3.9 Documents prepared by the Consultant to be property of the Authority
3.9.1 All plans, drawings, specifications, designs, reports and other documents
(collectively referred to as “Consultancy Documents”) prepared by the Consultant
(or by the Sub-Consultants or any Third Party) in performing the Services shall
become and remain the property of the Authority, and all intellectual property rights
in such Consultancy Documents shall vest with the Authority. Any Consultancy
Document, of which the ownership or the intellectual property rights do not vest
with the Authority under law, shall automatically stand assigned to the Authority as
and when such Consultancy Document is created and the Consultant agrees to
execute all papers and to perform such other acts as the Authority may deem
necessary to secure its rights herein assigned by the Consultant.
3.9.2 The Consultant shall, not later than termination or expiration of this Agreement,
deliver all Consultancy Documents to the Authority, together with a detailed
inventory thereof. The Consultant may retain a copy of such Consultancy
Documents. The Consultant, its Sub-Consultants or a Third Party shall not use these
Consultancy Documents for purposes unrelated to this Agreement without the prior
written approval of the Authority.
3.9.3 The Consultant shall hold the Authority harmless and indemnified for any losses,
claims, damages, expenses (including all legal expenses), awards, penalties or
injuries (collectively referred to as ‘Claims’) which may arise from or due to any
unauthorised use of such Consultancy Documents, or due to any breach or failure
on part of the Consultant or its Sub-Consultants or a Third Party to perform any of
its duties or obligations in relation to securing the aforementioned rights of the
Authority.
3.9.4 The Consultant shall provide perpetual, irrevocable and unlimited user license to
the Authority for any and all use of the data and software comprising the Web Portal
and for creating Analytics and other functions over the data available on the website.
3.10 Equipment and materials furnished by the Authority
Equipment and materials made available to the Consultant by the Authority shall be
the property of the Authority and shall be marked accordingly. Upon termination or
expiration of this Agreement, the Consultant shall furnish forthwith to the Authority,
an inventory of such equipment and materials and shall dispose of such equipment
and materials in accordance with the instructions of the Authority. While in
possession of such equipment and materials, the Consultant shall, unless otherwise
instructed by the Authority in writing, insure them in an amount equal to their full
replacement value.

-- 127 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
120 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
3.11 Providing access to Project Office and Personnel
The Consultant shall ensure that the Authority, and officials of the Authority having
authority from the Authority, are provided unrestricted access to the Project Office
and to all Personnel during office hours. The Authority’s official, who has been
authorised by the Authority in this behalf, shall have the right to inspect the Services
in progress, interact with Personnel of the Consultant and verify the records relating
to the Services for his satisfaction.
3.12. Accuracy of Documents
The Consultant shall be responsible for accuracy of the data collected by it directly
or procured from other agencies/authorities, the designs, drawings, estimates and all
other details prepared by it as part of these services. Subject to the provisions of
Clause 3.4, it shall indemnify the Authority against any inaccuracy in its work which
might surface during implementation of the Project, if such inaccuracy is the result
of any negligence or inadequate due diligence on part of the Consultant or arises out
of its failure to conform to good industry practice. The Consultant shall also be
responsible for promptly correcting, at its own cost and risk, the drawings including
any re-survey / investigations.
3.13 Intellectual property
(a) The Consultant shall, at its own cost, ensure that it has all necessary rights
(including licences) in and to the intellectual property subsisting in the
drawings, designs, softwares and all other Deliverables forming part of the
NDAP and all matters, things or processes (including documentation,
drawings and software) used or to be used by or on behalf of the Consultant
in connection with the Consultancy and/or this Agreement. The Consultant
shall not incorporate any materials, technology or any item or thing that
involves the use of intellectual property rights or proprietary rights that the
Consultant does not have the right to use or license to the Authority or that
may result in claims or suits against the Authority or the Consultant arising
out of claims of infringement of any intellectual property rights or other
proprietary rights.
(b) The Consultant shall perform all acts necessary to obtain and continue to
have all necessary licenses, approvals, consents of third parties free from any
encumbrances and all necessary technology, hardware and software to
enable it to perform the Consultancy and all its obligations under this
Agreement. If license agreements are necessary or appropriate between the
Consultant and third parties for purposes of enabling, enforcing or
implementing the provisions hereinabove, the Consultant shall be under an
obligation to enter into such agreements at its own sole cost, expense and
risk.

-- 128 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
121 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
3.14 Indemnity
(a) The Consultant shall indemnify, save, hold harmless and defend the
Authority and its officers, servants, employees and agents promptly upon
demand and at its expense, any time and from time to time, from and against
any and all suits, proceedings, actions, demands, losses, claims, damages,
liabilities, costs (including reasonable attorney’s fees and disbursements)
and expenses (collectively, “Losses”) to which the Authority may become
subject, insofar as such Losses arise out of, in any way relate to, arise or
result from
(i) claims by third Parties that the Consultancy or any equipment,
software, information, methods of operation or other intellectual property
(or the access, use or other rights thereto) used, created etc. by the Consultant
pursuant to this Agreement or incorporated in or related to the Consultancy
infringes any intellectual property right of any third party. In addition to the
foregoing indemnity obligations, if any of the Deliverables is or likely to be
held to be infringing, the Consultant shall at its expense and option either (i)
procure the right for the Authority to continue using it, (ii) replace it with a
non-infringing equivalent, or (iii) modify it to make it non-infringing, and
the Consultant agrees and confirms that any such action shall not constitute
a change of scope under this Agreement.
(ii) any compensation/ claim or proceeding by any third party against the
Authority arising out of any act, deed or omission by the Consultant;
(iii) claim filed by a workman or employee engaged by the Consultant for
carrying out work related to this Agreement;
(iv) any breach by the Consultant of any of its obligations under this
Agreement or from any negligence under the Agreement, including any
errors or deficiencies in the design documents, or tort or on any other ground
whatsoever;
(v) failure of the Consultant to comply with Applicable Laws and
applicable permits;
(vi) payment of taxes required to be made by the Consultant in respect of
the income or other taxes of its employees and representatives; or
(vii) non-payment of amounts due as a result of goods, materials or
Consultancy furnished to the Consultant which are payable by the
Consultant.
(b) The Consultant shall keep the Authority and its officers, servants and agents
indemnified from and against all suits, proceedings, actions, demands,
losses, claims, damages, compensation, litigation etc. including attorney’s
fees and damages on account of bodily injury, death or damage to tangible

-- 129 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
122 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
personal property arising in favour or any person, corporation or other entity
(including the Authority) attributable to the Consultant’s performance or
non-performance under this Agreement or Consultant’s negligence, wilful
default, lack of due care or breach of terms of this Agreement or failure to
comply with Applicable Laws.
(c) The Consultant’s obligation to indemnify under this Clause 3.14 shall be
limited to an amount not exceeding the Agreement Value.
4. CONSULTANT’S PERSONNEL AND SUB-CONSULTANTS
4.1 General
The Consultant shall employ and provide such qualified and experienced Personnel
as may be required to carry out the Services.
4.2 Deployment of Personnel
4.2.1 The designations, names and the estimated periods of engagement in carrying out
the Services by each of the Consultant’s Personnel are described in Annex-2 of this
Agreement. The estimate of Personnel costs and man day rates are specified in
Annex-3 of this Agreement.
4.2.2 Adjustments with respect to the estimated periods of engagement of Personnel set
forth in the aforementioned Annex-3 may be made by the Consultant after written
consent of the Authority, provided that: (i) such adjustments shall not alter the
originally estimated period of engagement of any individual by more than 20%
(twenty per cent) or one week, whichever is greater, and (ii) the aggregate of such
adjustments shall not cause payments under the Agreement to exceed the Agreement
Value set forth in Clause 6.1.2 of this Agreement. Any other adjustments shall only
be made with the written approval of the Authority.
4.2.3 If additional work is required beyond the scope of the Services specified in the
Terms of Reference, the estimated periods of engagement of Personnel, set forth in
the Annexes of the Agreement may be increased by agreement in writing between
the Authority and the Consultant, provided that any such increase shall not, except
as otherwise agreed, cause payments under this Agreement to exceed the Agreement
Value set forth in Clause 6.1.2.
4.3 Approval of Personnel
4.3.1 The Professional Personnel listed in Annex-2 of the Agreement are hereby approved
by the Authority. No other Professional Personnel shall be engaged without prior
approval of the Authority.
4.3.2 If the Consultant hereafter proposes to engage any person as Professional Personnel,
it shall submit to the Authority its proposal along with a CV of such person in the
form provided at Appendix–I (Form-12) of the RFP. The Authority may approve or
reject such proposal within 14 (fourteen) days of receipt thereof. In case the proposal

-- 130 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
123 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
is rejected, the Consultant may propose an alternative person for the Authority’s
consideration. In the event the Authority does not reject a proposal within 14
(fourteen) days of the date of receipt thereof under this Clause 4.3, it shall be deemed
to have been approved by the Authority.
4.4 Substitution of Key Personnel
The Authority expects all the Key Personnel specified in the Proposal to be available
during implementation of the Agreement. The Authority will not consider any
substitution of Key Personnel except under compelling circumstances beyond the
control of the Consultant and the concerned Key Personnel. Such substitution shall
be limited to not more than two Key Personnel subject to equally or better qualified
and experienced personnel being provided to the satisfaction of the Authority.
Without prejudice to the foregoing, substitution of one Key Personnel shall be
permitted subject to reduction of remuneration equal to 15% (fifteen per cent) of the
total remuneration specified for the Key Personnel who is proposed to be
substituted. In case of a second or third substitution, such reduction shall be equal
to 30% (thirty per cent) of the total remuneration specified for the Key Personnel
who is proposed to be substituted. Provided, however, that for and in respect of any
such substitution during the Operations Phase, the aforesaid deduction shall be
reduced to one half thereof.
4.5 Working hours, overtime, leave, etc.
The Personnel shall not be entitled to be paid for overtime nor to take paid sick leave
or vacation leave except as specified in the Agreement, and the Consultant’s
remuneration shall be deemed to cover these items. All leave to be allowed to the
Personnel is excluded from the man days of service set forth in Annex-2. Any taking
of leave by any Personnel for a period exceeding 7 (seven) days shall be subject to
the prior approval of the Authority, and the Consultant shall ensure that any absence
on leave will not delay the progress and quality of the Services.
4.6 Project Manager
The person designated as the Project Director & Team Leader of the Consultant’s
Personnel shall be responsible for the coordinated, timely and efficient functioning
of the Personnel. In addition, the Consultant shall designate a suitable person as
Project Manager (the “Project Manager”) who shall be responsible for day to day
performance of the Services.
4.7 Sub-Consultants
Sub-Consultants listed in Annex-4 of this Agreement are hereby approved by the
Authority. The Consultant may, with prior written approval of the Authority, engage
additional Sub-Consultants or substitute an existing Sub-Consultant. The hiring of
Personnel by the Sub-Consultants shall be subject to the same conditions as
applicable to Personnel of the Consultant under this Clause 4.

-- 131 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
124 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
5. OBLIGATIONS OF THE AUTHORITY
5.1 Assistance in clearances etc.
Unless otherwise specified in the Agreement, the Authority shall make best efforts
to ensure that the Government shall:
(a) provide the Consultant, its Sub-Consultants and Personnel with work
permits and such other documents as may be necessary to enable the
Consultant, its Sub-Consultants or Personnel to perform the Services;
(b) facilitate prompt clearance through customs of any property required for the
Services; and
(c) issue to officials, agents and representatives of the Government all such
instructions as may be necessary or appropriate for the prompt and effective
implementation of the Services.
5.2 Access to land and property
The Authority warrants that the Consultant shall have, free of charge, unimpeded
access to the site of the project in respect of which access is required for the
performance of Services; provided that if such access shall not be made available to
the Consultant as and when so required, the Parties shall agree on (i) the time
extension, as may be appropriate, for the performance of Services, and (ii) the
additional payments, if any, to be made to the Consultant as a result thereof pursuant
to Clause 6.1.3.
5.3 Change in Applicable Law
If, after the date of this Agreement, there is any change in the Applicable Laws with
respect to taxes and duties which increases or decreases the cost or reimbursable
expenses incurred by the Consultant in performing the Services, by an amount
exceeding 2% (two per cent) of the Agreement Value specified in Clause 6.1.2, then
the remuneration and reimbursable expenses otherwise payable to the Consultant
under this Agreement shall be increased or decreased accordingly by agreement
between the Parties hereto, and corresponding adjustments shall be made to the
aforesaid Agreement Value.
5.4 Payment
In consideration of the Services performed by the Consultant under this Agreement,
the Authority shall make to the Consultant such payments and in such manner as is
provided in Clause 6 of this Agreement.
6. PAYMENT TO THE CONSULTANT
6.1 Cost estimates and Agreement Value
6.1.1 An abstract of the cost of the Services payable to the Consultant is set forth in
Annex-5 of the Agreement.

-- 132 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
125 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
6.1.2 Except as may be otherwise agreed under Clause 2.6 and subject to the provisions
of Clause 6.1.3, the payments under this Agreement shall not exceed the agreement
value specified herein (the “Agreement Value”). The Parties agree that the
Agreement Value is Rs. ………. (Rupees. …………………….), which does not
include the Additional Costs specified in Annex-5 (the “Additional Costs”).
6.1.3 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in Clause 6.1.2, if pursuant to
the provisions of this Agreement, the Parties agree that additional payments shall be
made to the Consultant in order to cover any additional expenditures not envisaged
in the cost estimates referred to in Clause 6.1.1 above, the Agreement Value set forth
in Clause 6.1.2 above shall be increased by the amount or amounts, as the case may
be, of any such additional payments.
6.2 Currency of payment
All payments shall be made in Indian Rupees. The Consultant shall be free to
convert Rupees into any foreign currency as per Applicable Laws.
6.3 Mode of billing and payment
Billing and payments in respect of the Services shall be made as follows:-
(a) A Mobilisation Advance for an amount upto 10% (ten per cent) of the
Agreement Value shall be paid to the Consultant on request and against a
Bank Guarantee from a Scheduled Bank in India in an amount equal to such
advance, such Bank Guarantee to remain effective until the advance payment
has been fully set off as provided herein. The advance outstanding shall
attract simple interest @ 9% (nine per cent) per annum and shall be adjusted
in six equal instalments from the first six stage payments due and payable to
the Consultant, and the accrued interest shall be recovered from the seventh
instalment due and payable thereafter.
(b) The Consultant shall be paid for its services as per the Payment Schedule at
Annex-6 of this Agreement, subject to the Consultant fulfilling the following
conditions:
(i) No payment shall be due for the next stage till the Consultant
completes, to the satisfaction of the Authority, the work pertaining to
the preceding stage.
(ii) The Authority shall pay to the Consultant, only the undisputed
amount.
(c) The Authority shall cause the payment due to the Consultant to be made
within 30 (thirty) days after the receipt by the Authority of duly completed
bills with necessary particulars (the “Due Date”). Interest at the rate of 10%
(ten per cent) per annum shall become payable as from the Due Date on any
amount due by, but not paid on or before, such Due Date.

-- 133 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
126 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
(d) The final payment under this Clause shall be made only after the final report
and a final statement, identified as such, shall have been submitted by the
Consultant and approved as satisfactory by the Authority. The Services shall
be deemed completed and finally accepted by the Authority and the final
deliverable shall be deemed approved by the Authority as satisfactory upon
expiry of 90 (ninety) days after receipt of the final deliverable by the
Authority unless the Authority, within such 90 (ninety) day period, gives
written notice to the Consultant specifying in detail, the deficiencies in the
Services. The Consultant shall thereupon promptly make any necessary
corrections and/or additions, and upon completion of such corrections or
additions, the foregoing process shall be repeated. The Authority shall make
the final payment upon acceptance or deemed acceptance of the final
deliverable by the Authority.
(e) Any amount which the Authority has paid or caused to be paid in excess of
the amounts actually payable in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement shall be reimbursed by the Consultant to the Authority within 30
(thirty) days after receipt by the Consultant of notice thereof. Any such claim
by the Authority for reimbursement must be made within 1 (one) year after
receipt by the Authority of a final report in accordance with Clause 6.3 (d).
Any delay by the Consultant in reimbursement by the due date shall attract
simple interest @ 10% (ten per cent) per annum.
(f) All payments under this Agreement shall be made to the account of the
Consultant as may be notified to the Authority by the Consultant.
7. LIQUIDATED DAMAGES AND PENALTIES
7.1 Performance Security
7.1.1 The Authority shall retain by way of performance security (the “Performance
Security”), 5% (five per cent) of all the amounts due and payable to the Consultant,
to be appropriated against breach of this Agreement or for recovery of liquidated
damages as specified in Clause 7.2. The balance remaining out of the Performance
Security shall be returned to the Consultant at the end of 3 (three) months after the
expiry of this Agreement pursuant to Clause 2.4 hereof. For the avoidance of doubt,
the Parties hereto expressly agree that in addition to appropriation of the amounts
withheld hereunder, in the event of any default requiring the appropriation of further
amounts comprising the Performance Security, the Authority may make deductions
from any subsequent payments due and payable to the Consultant hereunder, as if it
is appropriating the Performance Security in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement.
7.1.2 The Consultant may, in lieu of retention of the amounts as referred to in Clause 7.1.1
above, furnish a Bank Guarantee substantially in the form specified at Annex-7 of
this Agreement.

-- 134 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
127 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
7.2 Liquidated Damages
7.2.1 Liquidated Damages for error/variation
In case any error or variation is detected in the reports submitted by the Consultant
and such error or variation is the result of negligence or lack of due diligence on the
part of the Consultant, the consequential damages thereof shall be quantified by the
Authority in a reasonable manner and recovered from the Consultant by way of
deemed liquidated damages, subject to a maximum of 25% (twenty five per cent)
of the Agreement Value.
7.2.2 Liquidated Damages for delay
In case of delay in completion of Services, liquidated damages not exceeding an
amount equal to 0.2% (zero point two per cent) of the Agreement Value per day,
subject to a maximum of 10% (ten per cent) of the Agreement Value will be imposed
and shall be recovered by appropriation from the Performance Security or
otherwise. However, in case of delay due to reasons beyond the control of the
Consultant, suitable extension of time shall be granted.
7.2.3 Encashment and appropriation of Performance Security
The Authority shall have the right to invoke and appropriate the proceeds of the
Performance Security, in whole or in part, without notice to the Consultant in the
event of breach of this Agreement or for recovery of liquidated damages specified
in this Clause 7.2.
7.3 Damages for shortfalls in Service Levels
In addition to the Damages and penalties as specified in Clause 7.2, the Consultant
shall also be liable for payment of Damages for shortfall in Service Levels as
specified in the SLA at Annex-8 hereof.
7.4 Penalty for deficiency in Services
In addition to the liquidated damages not amounting to penalty, as specified in
Clause 7.2, warning may be issued to the Consultant for minor deficiencies on its
part. In the case of significant deficiencies in Services causing adverse effect on the
Project or on the reputation of the Authority, other penal action including debarring
for a specified period may also be initiated as per policy of the Authority.
8. FAIRNESS AND GOOD FAITH
8.1 Good Faith
The Parties undertake to act in good faith with respect to each other’s rights under
this Agreement and to adopt all reasonable measures to ensure the realisation of the
objectives of this Agreement.

-- 135 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
128 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
8.2 Operation of the Agreement
The Parties recognise that it is impractical in this Agreement to provide for every
contingency which may arise during the life of the Agreement, and the Parties
hereby agree that it is their intention that this Agreement shall operate fairly as
between them, and without detriment to the interest of either of them, and that, if
during the term of this Agreement either Party believes that this Agreement is
operating unfairly, the Parties will use their best efforts to agree on such action as
may be necessary to remove the cause or causes of such unfairness, but failure to
agree on any action pursuant to this Clause shall not give rise to a dispute subject to
arbitration in accordance with Clause 9 hereof.
9. SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES
9.1 Amicable settlement
The Parties shall use their best efforts to settle amicably all disputes arising out of
or in connection with this Agreement or the interpretation thereof.
9.2 Dispute resolution
9.2.1 Any dispute, difference or controversy of whatever nature howsoever arising under
or out of or in relation to this Agreement (including its interpretation) between the
Parties, and so notified in writing by either Party to the other Party
(the “Dispute”) shall, in the first instance, be attempted to be resolved amicably in
accordance with the conciliation procedure set forth in Clause 9.3.
9.2.2 The Parties agree to use their best efforts for resolving all Disputes arising under or
in respect of this Agreement promptly, equitably and in good faith, and further agree
to provide each other with reasonable access during normal business hours to all
non-privileged records, information and data pertaining to any Dispute.
9.3 Conciliation
In the event of any Dispute between the Parties, either Party may call upon
Secretary, ............................ Department and the Chairman of the Board of
Directors of the Consultant or a substitute thereof for amicable settlement, and upon
such reference, the said persons shall meet no later than 10 (ten) days from the date
of reference to discuss and attempt to amicably resolve the Dispute. If such meeting
does not take place within the 10 (ten) day period or the Dispute is not amicably
settled within 15 (fifteen) days of the meeting or the Dispute is not resolved as
evidenced by the signing of written terms of settlement within 30 (thirty) days of
the notice in writing referred to in Clause 9.2.1 or such longer period as may be
mutually agreed by the Parties, either Party may refer the Dispute to arbitration in
accordance with the provisions of Clause 9.4.

-- 136 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
129 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
9.4 Arbitration
9.4.1 Any Dispute which is not resolved amicably by conciliation, as provided in Clause
9.3, shall be finally decided by reference to arbitration by an Arbitral Tribunal
appointed in accordance with Clause 9.4.2. Such arbitration shall be held in
accordance with the Rules of Arbitration of the International Centre for
Alternative Dispute Resolution, New Delhi (the “Rules”), or such other rules as may
be mutually agreed by the Parties, and shall be subject to the provisions of the
Arbitration and Conciliation Act,1996. The place of such arbitration shall be the
capital of the State where the Authority has its headquarters and the language of
arbitration proceedings shall be English.
9.4.2 There shall be an Arbitral Tribunal of three arbitrators, of whom each Party shall
select one, and the third arbitrator shall be appointed by the two arbitrators so
selected, and in the event of disagreement between the two arbitrators, the
appointment shall be made in accordance with the Rules.
9.4.3 The arbitrators shall make a reasoned award (the “Award”). Any Award made in
any arbitration held pursuant to this Clause 9 shall be final and binding on the Parties
as from the date it is made, and the Consultant and the Authority agree and undertake
to carry out such Award without delay.
9.4.4 The Consultant and the Authority agree that an Award may be enforced against the
Consultant and/or the Authority, as the case may be, and their respective assets
wherever situated.
9.4.5 This Agreement and the rights and obligations of the Parties shall remain in full
force and effect, pending the Award in any arbitration proceedings hereunder.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names as of the day and year first above written.
SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED
For and on behalf of For and on behalf of
Consultant: Authority
(Signature) (Signature)
(Name) (Name)
(Designation) (Designation)

-- 137 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
130 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
(Address) (Address)
In the presence of:
1. 2.

-- 138 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
131 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Annex-1
Terms of Reference
(Refer Clause 3.1.2)
(Reproduce Schedule-1 of RFP)

-- 139 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
132 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Annex-2
Deployment of Personnel
(Refer Clause 4.2)
(Reproduce as per Form-13 of Appendix-I)

-- 140 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
133 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Annex-3
Estimate of Personnel Costs
(Refer Clause 4.2)
(Reproduce as per Form-3 of Appendix-II)

-- 141 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
134 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Annex-4
Approved Sub-Consultant(s)
(Refer Clause 4.7)
(Reproduce as per Form-14 of Appendix-I)

-- 142 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
135 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Annex-5
Cost of Services
(Refer Clause 6.1)
(Reproduce as per Form-2 of Appendix-II)

-- 143 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
136 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Annex-6
Payment Schedule
(Refer Clause 6.3)
Phase Deliverables /
Milestones
Completion
Timeline
Payment Schedule
(% of fee quoted)
Development Phase
Initiation &
Transition
Project Kick-off
(KD0); Finalization
of Communication
Protocol and
Escalation Matrix;
Inception Report;
Project Plan &
WBS(work break
down structure) and
resource plan
KD0 + 2 weeks -
Initiation &
Transition
Transition Phase
from OTSi (Object
Technology Solutions
India Pvt. Ltd)
KD0 + 6 weeks 5%
System Study &
Design (NDAP)
Detailed System
Study; Gap Analysis
of NDAP;
Documentation of
Functional &
Technical
Requirements; SRS
Document for
enhanced feature;
Approval of Design
Architecture and
system Blue print ;
Review of Existing
APIs, Datasets,
Metadata Standards
KD0 + 12 weeks 10%
Development &
Customization
(NDAP)
Core Module
Development and
customization ;
Integration of
Enhanced Data
Ingestion pipelines;
Development of
Improved Analytical
Dashboards and
Visualization tools;
Implementation of
Data Quality and
Validation
KD0 + 36 weeks 10%

-- 144 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
137 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Framework
Testing & UAT Unit Testing,
Integration Testing &
UAT Testing;
Performance
Benchmarking and
Optimization; Bug
Fixing and final
deployment
Readiness review
KD0 + 40 weeks 10%
Go-Live (NDAP) Deployment of
NDAP in Production
environment; Data
Migration; Go-Live
Sign-off by Authority
KD0 + 48 weeks 10%
Training &
Documentation
Submission of all
Documentation &
Training Materials;
Issues and complain
Resolution Within
One Month of Go-
Live
KD0 + 52 weeks 5%
TOTAL 50%
Operation Phase
Quarterly
Onboarding
Onboarding New
Datasets Every
Quarter
Quarterly Refer Clause 6.3
Operations &
Maintenance
Completion of
Services under
Clause 5
KD0 + 312 weeks Refer Clause 6.3

-- 145 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
138 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Notes:
1. The above payments shall be made to the Consultant provided that the payments to
be made at any time shall not exceed the amount certified by the Consultant in its
Statement of Expenses.
2. The total payment to be made for and in respect of the Development Phase shall be
equal to 50% (fifty per cent) of the Agreement Value.
3. Payment to be made for and in respect of the Operations Phase commencing from the
1st (first) anniversary of the Effective Date shall be equal to 50% (fifty per cent) of
the Agreement Value. The payment during Operations Phase shall be released on a
quarterly basis for Services rendered during any preceding quarter of the Operations
Phase and shall be equal to 2.5% of the Agreement Value for the 20 (twenty) quarters
of the Operations Phase.
4. The Additional Costs specified in Annex-V of the Agreement shall be due and payable
in addition to the payments specified in Paragraph 5.2.
5. The Consultant shall submit a quarterly statement detailing the aggregate number of
complex queries (as defined under section 3.3.3) processed during the relevant
quarter. Payments shall be released on a quarterly basis, subject to verification and
certification by the Authority and shall be limited to the cost per query quoted in the
Financial Proposal. For the purposes of verification and certification by the Authority,
an appropriate user management system shall be installed by the Consultant in
consultation with the Authority to enable tracking and monitoring of the usage of the
AI engine. In the event that the actual number of queries exceeds the estimated volume
of 24,000 queries per year, the payment for these additional queries beyond the said
limit shall be adjusted at the end of the fourth quarter (Q4), shall be made strictly as
per actuals, and in accordance with the cost per query quoted in the Financial Proposal.

-- 146 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
139 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
6. Final payment of 15% (fifteen per cent) of Agreement Value shall be released upon
completion of all Services in their entirety, as specified at Project Closure of the above
schedule of payments.
7. Mobilisation Advance upto 10% (ten per cent) of the total Agreement Value shall be
paid on request against Bank Guarantee of a Scheduled Bank. This shall attract 9%
(nine per cent) simple interest per annum and shall be adjusted against the first 6 (six)
bills in six equal instalments and the accrued interest will be recovered from the 7th
(seventh) bill.

-- 147 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
140 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Annex- 7
Form of Bank Guarantee towards Bid Security
Bank Guarantee No. ........................
Date..................................................
To :
[Employer's Name and Address]
Dear Sirs,
In accordance with Invitation for Bids under your Bid Document No............................................. , M/s
.................................(***) .................................................. having its Registered/Head Office at
… .................................................hereafter called the 'Bidder') wish to participate in the said bid
for [Name of Package]..........................................................................
As an irrevocable bank guarantee against Bid Security for an amount of
............................(*)...........................................valid for ................................................................. days
from..................................................(**) ...................................................... required to be submitted
by the Bidder as a condition precedent for participation in the said bid which amount is liable to be
forfeited on the happening of any contingencies mentioned in the Bidding Documents.
We, the ............................................................................................[Name & address of
the Bank]…................................................................................having our Head Office
at…..................................(#)................................................guarantee and undertake to
pay immediately on demand by.....................................[Name of the Employer]
(hereinafter called the ‘Employer’)................................................the amount of
............................................(*) ....................................................... without any reservation,
protest, demand and recourse. Any such demand made by the 'Employer' shall be conclusive and
binding on us irrespective of any dispute or difference raised by the Bidder.
This Guarantee shall be irrevocable and shall remain valid upto ...............(@) ................................ If
any further extension of this guarantee is required, the same shall be extended to such required period
(not exceeding one year) on receiving instructions from M/s.........(***)…….............[Bidder's
Name]....................... on whose behalf this guarantee is issued.

-- 148 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
141 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
In witness whereof the Bank, through its authorised officer, has set its hand and stamp on
this..............................................................day of..................................20..........at.........
....................................................................
(Signature)
...................................................................
(Name)
.....................................................................
(Designation with Bank Stamp)
Authorised Vide
Power of Attorney No................................
Date............................................................
NOTE : 1. (*) The amount shall be as specified in the bidding documents. (**)This shall
be the date of opening of bids.
(#) Complete mailing address of the Head Office of the Bank to be given. (@) This
date shall be forty five (45) days beyond the validity of bid.
(***) Write the name and addresses of all the Joint Venture partners, in case the bid is
submitted by a Joint Venture in terms of Qualifying Requirements.
2. The Bank Guarantee (BG) shall be from a Bank as per provisions of the bidding documents.
3.The BG should be on Non-Judicial stamp paper/e-stamp paper of appropriate value as per
Stamp Act prevailing in the State(s) where the BG is submitted or is to be acted upon or the rate
prevailing in the State where the BG is executed, whichever is higher. The Stamp Paper/e-
Stamp paper shall be purchased in the name of Bidder/Bank issuing the guarantee.
4. While getting the Bank Guarantee issued, Bidders are required to ensure compliance to
the points mentioned in Bank Guarantee Verification Check List in the bidding documents.
Bidders are required to fill up this Check List and enclose the same along with the Bank
Guarantee.
5. In case, Bank Guarantee is getting issued from………..Bank, Bidder to take note letter and
attached with Section-III of Bidding Documents.

-- 149 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
142 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Annex 8
Bank Guarantee for Performance Security
(Refer Clause 7.1.2)
To
The President of India
acting through
....................
.................... ....................
In consideration of ............................. acting on behalf of the President of India
(hereinafter referred as the “Authority”, which expression shall, unless repugnant to the
context or meaning thereof, include its successors, administrators and assigns) awarding to
……………….., having its office at ……………….. (hereinafter referred as the
“Consultant” which expression shall, unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof,
include its successors, administrators, executors and assigns), vide the Authority’s
Agreement no. ………………. dated ……………….. valued at Rs. ………………..
(Rupees ...........................), (hereinafter referred to as the “Agreement”) the assignment for
consultancy services in respect of the...............................Project, and the Consultant having
agreed to furnish a Bank Guarantee amounting to Rs. ............................... (Rupees
…......................) to the Authority for performance of the said Agreement.
We, ……………….. (hereinafter referred to as the “Bank”) at the request of the
Consultant do hereby undertake to pay to the Authority an amount not exceeding Rs.
………………… (Rupees …………………. ) against any loss or damage caused to or
suffered or would be caused to or suffered by the Authority by reason of any breach by the
said Consultant of any of the terms or conditions contained in the said Agreement.
2. We, ........................... (indicate the name of the Bank) do hereby undertake to pay
the amounts due and payable under this Guarantee without any demur, merely on a
demand from the Authority stating that the amount/claimed is due by way of loss or
damage caused to or would be caused to or suffered by the Authority by reason of
breach by the said Consultant of any of the terms or conditions contained in the said
Agreement or by reason of the Consultant’s failure to perform the said Agreement.
Any such demand made on the bank shall be conclusive as regards the amount due
and payable by the Bank under this Guarantee. However, our liability under this
Guarantee shall be restricted to an amount not exceeding Rs. ………………..
(Rupees ............................... ).
3. We, ........................... (indicate the name of the Bank) do hereby undertake to pay to
the Authority any money so demanded notwithstanding any dispute or disputes
raised by the Consultant in any suit or proceeding pending before any court or
tribunal relating thereto, our liability under this present being absolute and
unequivocal. The payment so made by us under this bond shall be a valid discharge

-- 150 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
143 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
of our liability for payment thereunder and the Consultant shall have no claim
against us for making such payment.
4. We, ........................... (indicate the name of Bank) further agree that the Guarantee
herein contained shall remain in full force and effect during the period that would
be required for the performance of the said Agreement and that it shall continue to
be enforceable till all the dues of the Authority under or by virtue of the said
Agreement have been fully paid and its claims satisfied or discharged or till the
Authority certifies that the terms and conditions of the said Agreement have been
fully and properly carried out by the said Consultant and accordingly discharges this
Guarantee. Unless a demand or claim under this Guarantee is made on us in writing
on or before a period of one year from the date of this Guarantee, we shall be
discharged from all liability under this Guarantee thereafter.
5. We, ............................. (indicate the name of Bank) further agree with the
Authority that the Authority shall have the fullest liberty without our consent and
without affecting in any manner our obligations hereunder to vary any of the terms
and conditions of the said Agreement or to extend time of performance by the said
Consultant from time to time or to postpone for any time or from time to time any
of the powers exercisable by the Authority against the said Consultant and to forbear
or enforce any of the terms and conditions relating to the said Agreement and we
shall not be relieved from our liability by reason of any such variation, or extension
being granted to the said Consultant or for any forbearance, act or omission on the
part of the Authority or any indulgence by the Authority to the said Consultant or
any such matter or thing whatsoever which under the law relating to sureties would,
but for this provision, have the effect of so relieving us.
6. This Guarantee will not be discharged due to the change in the constitution of the
Bank or the Consultant(s).
7. We, .......................... (indicate the name of Bank) lastly undertake not to revoke this
Guarantee during its currency except with the previous consent of the Authority in
writing.
8. For the avoidance of doubt, the Bank’s liability under this Guarantee shall be
restricted to Rs. .......... crore (Rupees ............................................. crore) only. The
Bank shall be liable to pay the said amount or any part thereof only if the Authority
serves a written claim on the Bank in accordance with Paragraph 2 hereof, on or
before............ (indicate the date falling 365 days after the date of this Guarantee).
For ..............................................................
Name of Bank:
Seal of the Bank:
Dated, the ...........................day of ................., 20......

-- 151 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
144 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
(Signature, name and designation of the authorised signatory)
NOTES:
(i) The Bank Guarantee should contain the name, designation and code
number of the officer(s) signing the Guarantee.
(ii) The address, telephone no. and other details of the Head Office of the Bank
as well as of issuing Branch should be mentioned on the covering letter of
issuing Branch.

-- 152 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
145 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Annex - 9
Service Level Agreement
(Refer Clause 3.1.3)
1. General Conditions
1.1 The Consultant acknowledge, agrees and undertakes to ensure and procure that
NDAP shall meet and maintain the service levels specified in this Annex-8 (the “Service
Levels”) comprising the Service Level Agreement (the “SLA”) which shall form an
integral part of the Agreement.
1.2 Availability hereunder shall be calculated as Availability = Uptime/ (Uptime +
Downtime).
1.3 Uptime shall be computed based on availability of the applications to the NDAP
users, irrespective of server availability. Non-compliance with performance parameters for
business, network and environmental infrastructure and/or system/service degradation shall
be considered for downtime calculation.
1.4 Downtime shall not include any planned or emergency website outages, subject to
the following:
(a) Planned website outages shall be undertaken no more than twice a year with at least
7 (seven) working days prior notice given to the Authority. This notice shall be
displayed on the site and communicated to all stakeholders by available means like
email, SMS etc. The outages shall not coincide with working hours (09:00 to 23:59
Hours);
(b) the Authority shall be notified of any hosting environment planned outages at the
start of each Financial Year; and
(c) the Authority shall be given prior notice of at least 1 (one) working day before an
emergency outage. Response may be telephonic or onsite. In case the issue cannot
be resolved telephonically, the Consultant shall provide on-site assistance within the
permissible response resolution time.
1.5 Service levels shall be assessed and evaluated through audits and reports provided
by the Consultant (e.g. utilization reports, response time measurements reports, etc.). The
tools/solutions for undertaking the audit shall be provided by the Consultant. Audits shall
be done on periodic basis or as required by the Authority, and shall be performed by either
the Authority or by an independent third party nominated by the Authority.
1.6 The Consultant should configure an automated monitoring tool for reporting that
gives alerts in the event of breach or any downtime.

-- 153 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
146 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
1.7 The Consultant shall provide the Authority with an Availability Report on a monthly
basis. The report shall contain a summary of all incidents reported, Mean Time between
Failures (MTBF) and Mean Time to Repair (MTTR), and associated Consultant’s
Performance Measurements for the relevant month.
1.8 Service Levels shall be complied with irrespective of the customizations that the
applications would undergo during the period of the Agreement.
1.9 If failure of any component leads to Application Downtime more than thrice within
a span of three months, the Consultant shall replace or modify the component at its own
cost.
1.10 The Consultant shall propose data conflict resolution processes and inform the
Authority expeditiously of the issues raised during the operation of such processes. Severity
levels shall also be specified by the Consultant, as and when necessary.
2. Service Levels for Performance Measurements
2.1 The table below specifies the NDAP performance indicators and corresponding
minimum Service Levels. The Authority shall measure these Service Levels through
periodic audits based on logs provided by the Consultant and/or through independent third
party audit reports.
Infrastructure Performance Measurement Minimum
Service Level
Application
Availability Uptime and availability of application for users. 99.5%
Backup Success
Rate Backup success rate for all components of NDAP. 99%
System
Response
Time
End user to application and back (end to end)
response time <3 seconds on 512 kbps intranet; 30
seconds on 2G connection.
99%
Software
Service
Requests
% of Software Service Requests (e.g. patches, bug
fixes, errors) concluded within defined response
resolution period.
98%

-- 154 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
147 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Disaster
Recovery Site
Availability
(application
only)
All applications as part of the Solution should be
designed with the following parameters:
● Recovery Point Objective (RPO) – 2 Hour
● Recovery Time Objective (RTO) _ 2 Hours
3. Damages for shortfalls in Service Levels
3.1 Damages by way of mutually agreed pre-determined loss and damage likely to be
suffered and incurred by the Authority, and not by way of penalty (the “Damages”) shall
be levied in case the Service Levels as specified in Paragraphs 1 and 2 are not achieved.
Such Damages shall be levied for each quarter and shall be determined as an average
percentage of all SLA violation(s) of monthly Service Level measurements for the
respective quarter.
3.2 The overall Damages shall be capped at 10% (ten per cent) of the payment for the
respective quarter. If the Damages cap is breached, the Authority shall have the right to
terminate the Agreement.
3.3 Service Levels shall be measured on a monthly basis, however, Damages shall be
adjusted from quarterly invoices on pro-rata basis.
3.4 A Service Level default shall occur when the Consultant fails to meet minimum
Service Levels, as measured on a monthly basis, for a particular Service Level.
3.5 In the event of a Service Level default, the Consultant shall incur Damages resulting
in a reduction in payment. The Damages shall be computed in accordance with the
following formula:
Monthly Service Level Default = Minimum Service Level – Monthly Actual Service Level
Where Monthly Service Level Default cannot be less than zero. (If for a particular
period the Actual Service Level is above the Minimum Service Level then the
Monthly Service Level Default will be zero and not less than zero)
Where Quarterly Service Level Default = Average of the Monthly Service Level
Defaults for all the 3 months
The quarterly Damages shall be equal to Quarterly Service Level Default * Total
Quarterly payment
3.6 The applicable Damages shall be the same irrespective of the root causes. An
example is provided below:
Assume for a particular Service Level that the minimum Service Level is 99%. During a
service assessment period, the Service Level achieved for 3 months is as below:

-- 155 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
148 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Month Minimum Service
Level
Monthly Actual
Service Level Monthly Default
Month-1 99% 95% 4%
Month-2 99% 100% 0%
Month-3 99% 94% 5%
Average Quarterly Service Level Default 3%
(a) The Quarterly Service Damages for this particular default shall be 3%.
(b) This percentage total would then be added to all other Service Levels to determine
the Damages for the quarter.
(c) The overall fee shall then be calculated by multiplying the total average quarterly
default by the total quarterly payment due for the Operations Phase.
3.7 The PMU may undertake inspection of the data extracted by the Consultant from
various government websites and reports. If the deficiencies or errors in uploading such
data or reports exceed 10, Damages may be levied at the rate of 2% of the pro-rata monthly
payment due to the Consultant.
3.8 An average monthly rating below 3 stars, based on valid user feedback, shall
constitute a Service Level Default for which Damages may be levied at the rate of 2% of
the pro-rata monthly payment due to the Consultant.
3.9 If the number of one or two star valid user feedbacks associated with incorrect search
results, in-appropriate visualization or in-appropriate analysis exceeds 10 in any month,
Damages may be levied at the rate of 2% of pro-rata monthly payment due to the Consultant.
4. Service Levels for Incident/Bug Resolution
4.1 After Go-Live, the Consultant shall resolve any incidents, such as bugs or defects,
that arise on the platform within the prescribed resolution time. Failure to resolve an
incident within the maximum resolution time shall result in levy of Damages as specified
in Paragraph 5 of this Service Level Agreement.
4.2 An incident can be defined by level of criticality in terms of the magnitude of website
disruption. An indicative list of the levels of incidents and their requisite resolution time is
provided below:

-- 156 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
149 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Criticality Description Resolution Time
Level 1
High Severity
Incidents
High Severity Incidents are ones which have a
critical business impact. These incidents will have
any of the following characteristics:
(a) Entire application not available;
(b) Incorrect behaviour (wrong calculations,
workflows not functioning as desired for
reports, etc.);
(c) Security Incidents (data theft/
loss/
corruption);
(d) Severe impact on customer satisfaction / NITI
Aayog reputation i.e. adverse media
publicity;
(e) No work-around to mitigate the disruption in
service; or
(f) Repeat of previous incident
2 Hours
Level 2
Medium
Severity
Incidents
Medium Severity Incidents are ones which have a
significant business impact. These are concerns
needing attention as quickly as possible, but will not
cause business processes to fail within one day.
These incidents will have any of the following
characteristics:
(a) Part of the application not available or
not working as desired; or
(b) Internal user escalations for slow
response of the implemented solution
impacting the efficiency of users
6 Hours
Level 3
Low Severity
Incidents
Low Severity Incidents are the ones which have a
minimal business impact. These incidents will have
any of the following characteristics:
(a) Low impact on the efficiency of
users;
(b) A simple workaround; or
(c) Enhancement requests e.g. cosmetic
user interface changes.
24 Hours
NOTE: Root Cause Analysis (RCA) should be provided for Level 1 Incidents within 3
(three) days and within 7 (seven) days for Level 2 or Level 3 Incidents.

-- 157 of 198 --

Schedule-2: Form of Agreement
150 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
5. Damages relating to Incident/Bug Resolution
5.1 Damages shall be based on the time taken to resolve the incident and the level of
criticality of the incident.
5.2 The initial Damages applicable shall be 0.5% of the quarterly payment during the
Operations Phase.
5.3 A breakdown of the Damages structure is given in the table below. Further delays in
incident resolution will result in increasing the Damages following the pattern set forth in
the table:
Level Permissible
Resolution Time
Actual Time
Taken
Damages as % of Quarterly
Payment
Level 1 0-2 Hours
2-4 Hours 0.5%
4-6 Hours 1%
6-8 Hours 2%
Level 2 0-6 Hours
6-12 Hours 0.5%
12-18 Hours 1%
18-24 Hours 2%
Level 3 0-24 Hours
24-48 Hours 0.5%
48-72 Hours 1%
72-96 Hours 2%

-- 158 of 198 --

Schedule 3
SCHEDULE-3
(See Clause 2.3.3)
Guidance Note on Conflict of Interest
1. This Note further explains and illustrates the provisions of Clause 2.3 of the
RFP and shall be read together therewith in dealing with specific cases.
2. Consultants should be deemed to be in a conflict-of-interest situation if it can
be reasonably concluded that their position in a business or their personal
interest could improperly influence their judgment in the exercise of their
duties. The process for selection of consultants should avoid both actual and
perceived conflict of interest.
3. Conflict of interest may arise between the Authority and a consultant or
between consultants and present or future concessionaries/ contractors.
Some of the situations that would involve conflict of interest are identified
below:
(a) Authority and consultants:
(i) Potential consultant should not be privy to information from
the Authority which is not available to others;
(ii) potential consultant should not have defined the project when
earlier working for the Authority;
(iii) potential consultant should not have recently worked for the
Authority overseeing the project.
(b) Consultants and concessionaires/contractors:
(i) No consultant should have an ownership interest or a
continuing business interest or an on-going relationship with
a potential concessionaire/ contractor save and except
relationships restricted to project-specific and short-term
assignments; or
(ii) no consultant should be involved in owning or operating
entities resulting from the project; or
(iii) no consultant should bid for works arising from the project.
The participation of companies that may be involved as investors or
consumers and officials of the Authority who have current or recent
connections to the companies involved, therefore, needs to be avoided.

-- 159 of 198 --

Appendices
4. The normal way to identify conflicts of interest is through self-declaration
by consultants. Where a conflict exists, which has not been declared,
competing companies are likely to bring this to the notice of the Authority.
All conflicts must be declared as and when the consultants become aware of
them.
5. Another approach towards avoiding a conflict of interest is through the use
of “Chinese walls” to avoid the flow of commercially sensitive information
from one part of the consultant’s company to another. This could help
overcome the problem of availability of limited numbers of experts for the
project. However, in reality effective operation of “Chinese walls” may be a
difficult proposition. As a general rule, larger companies will be more
capable of adopting Chinese walls approach than smaller companies.
Although, “Chinese walls” have been relatively common for many years,
they are an increasingly discredited means of avoiding conflicts of interest
and should be considered with caution. As a rule, “Chinese walls” should be
considered as unacceptable and may be accepted only in exceptional cases
upon full disclosure by a consultant coupled with provision of safeguards to
the satisfaction of the Authority.
6. Another way to avoid conflicts of interest is through the appropriate grouping
of tasks. For example, conflicts may arise if consultants drawing up the terms
of reference or the proposed documentation are also eligible for the
consequent assignment or project.
7. Another form of conflict of interest called “scope–creep” arises when
consultants advocate either an unnecessary broadening of the terms of
reference or make recommendations which are not in the best interests of the
Authority but which will generate further work for the consultants. Some
forms of contractual arrangements are more likely to lead to scope creep. For
example, lump-sum contracts provide fewer incentives for this, while time
and material contracts provide built in incentives for consultants to extend
the length of their assignment.
8. Every project contains potential conflicts of interest. Consultants should not
only avoid any conflict of interest, they should report any present/ potential
conflict of interest to the Authority at the earliest. Officials of the Authority
involved in development of a project shall be responsible for identifying and
resolving any conflicts of interest. It should be ensured that safeguards are in
place to preserve fair and open competition and measures should be taken to
eliminate any conflict of interest arising at any stage in the process.
147 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project

-- 160 of 198 --

Appendices
BANK GUARANTEE
A) BANK GUARANTEE NO.:
B) AMOUNT: INR
C.) BG ISSUE DATE:
D.) LAST DATE OF CLAIM:
E.) BANK NAME:
F.) BENEFICIARY:
THIS DEED OF GUARANTEE is made on this day of , 2025 by ........... and/or
governed by the Banking Co. Regulation Act and having its Head Office at …….………….
(hereinafter called the "Bank" which expression shall wherever the context so admit, include its
executors, administrators and successors) in favour of CEO, NITI Aayog …………………….
(hereinafter referred to as “NITI” which expression shall include its executors, successors and
assigns).
……………………., is a Company, incorporated under the ............................................ Act,
……………………. having its registered office at ………………………… (hereinafter called
“the Organisation”) (which expression shall wherever the context so admits include its
successors in interest, liquidators, administrators and permitted assignees).
WHEREAS the Organisation has been sanctioned a study/ research project related to
“……………………………” and submitted a proposal with amendments (hereinafter called
“the Project”) to NITI.
WHEREAS the NITI has sanctioned Project assistance on the terms and conditions stipulated
in the Contract executed by them
on………………………………………………………………...
WHEREAS the Organisation is required to furnish a Bank Guarantee for a sum of
INR……………. (Rupees ……………………. only) as security for fulfilling its commitments
towards the release of the funds.
AND WHEREAS THE BANK has agreed to stand as guarantor on behalf of the Organisation
and execute this guarantee for the satisfactory fulfilment of the obligations under the Contract
executed by the Organization.
NOW THEREFORE, THE DEED OF GUARANTEE WITNESSETH AS FOLLOWS:
1) IN CONSIDERATION OF WHAT IS STATED HEREINABOVE THE BANK
hereby guarantees that the Organisation will duly comply with all his/ their obligations under
the said terms & conditions thereof., WE THE BANK UNDERTAKE TO PAY THE
AMOUNTS DUE AND P A Y A B L E U N D E R T H IS G U A R A N T E E ,
WITHOUT ANY DEMUR, MERELY ON DEMAND SUCH AMOUNT/AMOUNTS as the Bank
may be called upon by NITI to pay, but not exceeding in the aggregate, the said sum of
INR………(Rupees only).

-- 161 of 198 --

Appendices
2) The Bank further undertakes that this guarantee shall be kept valid and binding on the Bank
from the time this guarantee is given until fulfillment of all its commitments as provided in
and as per the terms and conditions of the said Contract and the liability of the Bank hereunder
shall not be impaired and/or discharged by any extension of time or variations or alterations
made, given, considered or agreed with or without the Bank‟s knowledge or consent by or
between the parties involved and it will remain valid till all the terms & conditions are duly
satisfied.
3) It is not obligatory on the part of NITI to establish non-fulfillment of the contractual obligations
by the as stipulated in the terms & conditions under the terms of this guarantee, we the Bank
will, on simple demand from NITI, pay to this NITI, the said amount of INR ……. (Rupees
..................................................................................................................................................... only) as
indicated in clause (1) above without demur and without requiring NITI to invoke any legal
remedy that may be available to them to compel us the Bank to pay the same even
if the ............. considers such demand of NITI as unjustified.
4) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, NITI's decision as to whether the Organisation had
made any default or defaults or committed a breach of Contract and the amount to which NITI
is entitled by reasons thereof, will be binding on us and we shall not be entitled to ask NITI to
establish its claims under this guarantee but, we Bank, shall pay the sum forthwith at New
Delhi, within seven days from the date of your first written demand any sum or sums within
the limits of INR…….(Rupees only) as aforesaid, without any objection or query and without
cavil or
argument.
5) The decision of NITI that any sum has become payable shall be final and binding on the Bank.
The claims under this guarantee will be presented to the Bank in writing.
6) This guarantee shall be in addition to any other security or guarantees whatsoever that NITI
may now or at any time in any way have or shall arrange in relation to the ................ 's
obligations/liabilities under and/or in connection with the said Contract and NITI shall have
full authority and liberty to take recourse to or to enforce this guarantee in preference to those
other security or securities or assurances, at its sole discretion.
7) The guarantee shall not be determined or affected by the liquidation or winding up, dissolution
or change in the constitution of or insolvency of the Organisation but shall in all respects and
for all purposes be binding and operative until payment of all sum or amounts payable to NITI
in terms hereof, are made.
8) NITI shall have the fullest liberty without affecting in any way the liability of the Bank
under Guarantee or Indemnity, from time to time, to vary any of the terms and conditions of
the said contract or to extend time of performance by the said Organisation or to postpone
for any time from time to time any of the powers exercisable by it against the said
Organisation and either to enforce or forbear from enforcing any of the terms and conditions
governing the said Contract or securities available to NITI and the said bank shall not be
released from its liability under these presents by and exercise by NITI of the liberty with
reference to the matters aforesaid or by reason of time being given to the said Organisation
or any other forbearance act or omission on the part of NITI or any other matter or
thing whatsoever which under the law relating to sureties would, but for this provision, have
the effect of so releasing the Bank from its such liability

-- 162 of 198 --

Appendices
9) The amount stated in any notice of demand addressed by NITI to the Bank as liable to be
paid to NITI by the………………………. or as suffered or incurred by NITI on account of
losses or damages or costs, charges, or expenses shall, as between the Bank and NITI, as the
case may be, be conclusive and payable by the Bank to NITI.
10)It shall not be necessary for NITI to proceed against the Organisation before proceeding
against the Bank and the Guarantee herein contained shall be enforceable against the Bank,
notwithstanding any security which NITI may have obtained or obtain from the
Organisation shall at the time when proceedings are taken against the Bank Hereunder, be
outstanding or unrealized.
11) This guarantee will not be discharged due to the change in the constitution of the Bank.
12)We, the said Bank, lastly undertake not to revoke this Guarantee during is currency except
with the previous consent of NITI in writing and agree that if any further extension of this
Guarantee is required the same shall be extended to such required periods on receiving
instructions from the Organisation on whose behalf this guarantee is issued.
13)Notwithstanding anything contained hereinbefore, our liability under this guarantee is
restricted to INR…….(Rupees ……. only). The guarantee is valid up to ……. unless a claim
or demand made in writing is presented to us within three months of the said expiry period
of this guarantee all your rights under this guarantee shall be forfeited and we shall be
released and discharged from all liabilities thereunder.
WE THE BANK FURTHER AGREE THAT THE GUARANTEE HEREIN CONTAINED
SHALL REMAIN IN FULL FORCE AND EFFECT DURING THE PERIOD THAT WOULD
BE TAKEN FOR THE PERFORMANCE OF THE SAID TERMS & CONDITIONS OF THE
CONTRACT AND THAT IT SHALL CONTINUE TO BE ENFORCEABLE TILL ALL THE
OF CLAIMS OF NITI UNDER OR BY VIRTUE OF THE SAID CONTRACT HAVE BEEN
SATISFIED/DISCHARGED OR TILL NITI CERTIFES THAT THE TERMS AND
CONDITIONS HAVE BEEN FULLY AND PROPERLY CARRIED OUT BY THE
ORGANISATION.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Bank has executed this Deed of Guarantee on …. day of …. and
the year hereinbefore mentioned, in the presence of:
Witness.
1.
2.
For…………………
(Name of the Bank)
Name, Designation,
Signing Power of the official signing.

-- 163 of 198 --

Annex 5
PROFORMA
Organisation Details
(To be Attested by the concerned Bank)
1. Type of Registration:
2. Name of the Organisation:
3. Act/ Registration No.:
4. Date of Registration (DD/MM/YYYY):
5. Registering Authority & Name of State:
6. TIN No.: TAN No.: PAN No.:
7. Complete Address of the Organisation:
City:
State:
District:
Pin Code:
8. Contact Person:
9. Phone No.:
10. Phone No. of the Organisation:
11. Email address of Organisation:
12. Unique Agency Code:
(Unique Agency code is like short code of agency, it will accept only alphanumeric value no special
character or space (e.g. if agency name is ABC Limited than unique code will be ABCL or ABCLTD)
13. Bank Details
1. Name of Bank & Branch:
2. Bank/ Branch Address:
3. Bank Account No.
4. IFS Code:
5. MICR Code:
5. Organisation Name as per Bank records:
Signature of the Competent Authority with Stamp

-- 164 of 198 --

APPENDICES

-- 165 of 198 --

Appendices
149 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
APPENDIX-I
(See Clause 2.1.3)
TECHNICAL PROPOSAL
Form-1
Letter of Proposal
(On Applicant’s letter head)
(Date and Reference)
To,
........................
...................... .....................
Sub: Appointment of Consultant for Development and Operation of the National
Data and Analytics Platform Project
Dear Sir,
With reference to your RFP Document dated ………….., I/we, having examined all
relevant documents and understood their contents, hereby submit our Proposal for selection
as Consultant for the …………………… Project. The proposal is unconditional and
unqualified.
2. All information provided in the Proposal and in the Appendices is true and correct
and all documents accompanying such Proposal are true copies of their respective
originals.
3. This statement is made for the express purpose of appointment as the Consultant for
the aforesaid Project.
4. I/We shall make available to the Authority any additional information it may deem
necessary or require for supplementing or authenticating the Proposal.
5. I/We acknowledge the right of the Authority to reject our application without
assigning any reason or otherwise and hereby waive our right to challenge the same
on any account whatsoever.
6. I/We certify that in the last three years, we or any of our Associates have neither
failed to perform on any contract, as evidenced by imposition of a penalty by an
arbitral or judicial authority or a judicial pronouncement or arbitration award against
the Applicant, nor been expelled from any project or contract by any public
authority nor have had any contract terminated by any public authority for breach
on our part.

-- 166 of 198 --

Appendices
150 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
7. I/We declare that:
(a) I/We have examined and have no reservations to the RFP Documents,
including any Addendum issued by the Authority;
(b) I/We do not have any Conflict of Interest in accordance with Clause 2.3 of
the RFP Document;
(c) I/We have not directly or indirectly or through an agent engaged or indulged
in any corrupt practice, fraudulent practice, coercive practice, undesirable
practice or restrictive practice, as defined in Clause 4.3 of the RFP document,
in respect of any tender or request for proposal issued by or any agreement
entered into with the Authority or any other public sector enterprise or any
government, Central or State; and
(d) I/We hereby certify that we have taken steps to ensure that in conformity
with the provisions of Section 4 of the RFP, no person acting for us or on our
behalf will engage in any corrupt practice, fraudulent practice, coercive
practice, undesirable practice or restrictive practice.
8. I/We understand that you may cancel the Selection Process at any time and that you
are neither bound to accept any Proposal that you may receive nor to select the
Consultant, without incurring any liability to the Applicants in accordance with
Clause 2.8 of the RFP document.
9. I/We declare that we/any member of the consortium, are/is not a Member of a/any
other Consortium applying for Selection as a Consultant.
10. I/We certify that in regard to matters other than security and integrity of the country,
we or any of our Associates have not been convicted by a Court of Law or indicted
or adverse orders passed by a regulatory authority which would cast a doubt on our
ability to undertake the Consultancy for the Project or which relates to a grave
offence that outrages the moral sense of the community.
11. I/We further certify that in regard to matters relating to security and integrity of the
country, we have not been charge-sheeted by any agency of the Government or
convicted by a Court of Law for any offence committed by us or by any of our
Associates.
12. I/We further certify that no investigation by a regulatory authority is pending either
against us or against our Associates or against our CEO or any of our
Directors/Managers/employees.4
4 In case the Applicant is unable to provide the certification specified in Paragraph 12, it may precede the
Paragraph by the words viz. “Except as specified in Schedule .................... hereto”. The exceptions to the
certification or any disclosures relating thereto may be clearly stated in a Schedule to be attached to the
Application. The Authority will consider the contents of such Schedule and determine whether or not the
exceptions/disclosures are material to the suitability of the Applicant for pre-qualification hereunder.

-- 167 of 198 --

Appendices
151 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
13. I/We hereby irrevocably waive any right or remedy which we may have at any stage
at law or howsoever otherwise arising to challenge or question any decision
taken by the Authority and/ or the Government of India in connection with the
selection of Consultant or in connection with the Selection Process itself in respect
of the above mentioned Project.
14. The Bid Security of Rs. ................... (Rupees ........................................ ) in the form
of a Demand Draft is attached, in accordance with the RFP document.
15. I/We agree and understand that the proposal is subject to the provisions of the RFP
document. In no case, shall I/we have any claim or right of whatsoever nature if the
Consultancy for the Project is not awarded to me/us or our proposal is not opened
or rejected.
16. I/We agree to keep this offer valid for 90 (ninety) days from the Proposal Due Date
specified in the RFP.
17. A Power of Attorney in favour of the authorised signatory to sign and submit this
Proposal and documents is attached herewith in Form-4.
18. In the event of my/our firm/ consortium being selected as the Consultant, I/we agree
to enter into an Agreement in accordance with the form at Schedule–2 of the RFP.
We agree not to seek any changes in the aforesaid form and agree to abide by the
same.
19. I/We have studied RFP and all other documents carefully. We understand that except
to the extent as expressly set forth in the Agreement, we shall have no claim, right
or title arising out of any documents or information provided to us by the Authority
or in respect of any matter arising out of or concerning or relating to the Selection
Process including the award of Consultancy.
20. The Financial Proposal is being submitted in a separate cover. This Technical
Proposal read with the Financial Proposal shall constitute the Application which
shall be binding on us.
21 I/We agree and undertake to abide by all the terms and conditions of the RFP
Document. In witness thereof, I/we submit this Proposal under and in accordance
with the terms of the RFP Document.
Yours faithfully,
(Signature, name and designation of the authorised signatory)
(Name and seal of the Applicant / Lead Member)

-- 168 of 198 --

Appendices
152 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
APPENDIX-I
Form-2
Particulars of the Applicant
1.1 Title of Consultancy:
National Data and Analytics Platform Project
1.2 Title of Project:
… ...................... Project
1.3
State whether applying as Sole Firm or Lead Member of a consortium:
Sole Firm or
Lead Member of a consortium
1.4 State the following:
Name of Company or Firm:
Legal status (e.g. incorporated private company, unincorporated business,
partnership etc.):
Country of incorporation:
Registered address:
Year of Incorporation:
Year of commencement of business:
Principal place of business:
Brief description of the Company including details of its main lines of
business
Name, designation, address and phone numbers of authorised signatory of the
Applicant:
Name:
Designation:
Company:
Address:
Phone No.:
E-mail address:

-- 169 of 198 --

Appendices
153 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
1.5 If the Applicant is Lead Member of a consortium, state the following for each
of the other Member Firms:
(i) Name of Firm:
(ii) Legal Status and country of incorporation
(iii) Registered address and principal place of business.
1.6
For the Applicant, (in case of a consortium, for each Member), state the
following information:
(i) In case of non Indian Firm, does the Firm have business presence in India?
Yes/No If so, provide the office address(es) in India.
(ii) Has the Applicant or any of the Members in case of a consortium been
penalized by any organization for poor quality of work or breach of contract
in the last five years?
Yes/No
(iii) Has the Applicant/ Member ever failed to complete any work awarded
to it by any public authority/ entity in last five years?
Yes/No
(iv) Has the Applicant or any member of the consortium been blacklisted by
any Government department/Public Sector
Undertaking in the last five years?
Yes/No
(v) Has the Applicant or any of the Members, in case of a consortium, suffered
bankruptcy/insolvency in the last five years?
Yes/No
Note: If answer to any of the questions at (ii) to (v) is yes, the Applicant
may not be eligible for this consultancy assignment.

-- 170 of 198 --

Appendices
154 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
1.7 Does the Applicant’s firm/company (or any member of the consortium)
combine functions as a consultant or adviser along with the functions as a
contractor and/or a manufacturer?
Yes/No
If yes, does the Applicant (and other Member of the Applicant’s consortium)
agree to limit the Applicant’s role only to that of a consultant/ adviser to the
Authority and to disqualify themselves, their Associates/ affiliates,
subsidiaries and/or parent organization subsequently from work on this
Project in any other capacity?
Yes/No
1.8 Does the Applicant intend to borrow or hire temporarily, personnel from
contractors, manufacturers or suppliers for performance of the Consulting
Services?
Yes/No
If yes, does the Applicant agree that it will only be acceptable as Consultant,
if those contractors, manufacturers and suppliers disqualify themselves from
subsequent execution of work on this Project (including tendering relating to
any goods or services for any other part of the Project) other than that of the
Consultant?
Yes/No
If yes, have any undertakings been obtained (and annexed) from such
contractors, manufacturers, etc. that they agree to disqualify themselves from
subsequent execution of work on this Project and they agree to limit their role
to that of consultant/ adviser for the Authority only?
Yes/No
(Signature, name and designation of the authorised signatory) For
and on behalf of ………………..

-- 171 of 198 --

Appendices
155 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
APPENDIX-I
Form-3
Statement of Legal Capacity
(To be forwarded on the letter head of the Applicant)
Ref. Date:
To,
..................... ....................
....................
Dear Sir,
Sub: RFP for Consultant: .................................... Project
I/We hereby confirm that we, the Applicant (along with other members in case of
consortium, the constitution of which has been described in the Proposal5), satisfy the terms
and conditions laid down in the RFP document.
I/We have agreed that ……………….. (insert Applicant’s name) will act as the Lead
Member of our consortium.
I/We have agreed that ........................... (insert individual’s name) will act as our Authorised
Representative/ will act as the Authorised Representative of the consortium on our behalf
and has been duly authorized to submit our Proposal. Further, the authorised signatory is
vested with requisite powers to furnish such proposal and all other documents, information
or communication and authenticate the same.
Yours faithfully,
(Signature, name and designation of the authorised signatory)
For and on behalf of ..............................................
5 Please strike out whichever is not applicable

-- 172 of 198 --

Appendices
156 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
APPENDIX-I
Form-4
Power of Attorney
Know all men by these presents, we, ....................................... (name of Firm and address of
the registered office) do hereby constitute, nominate, appoint and authorise Mr /
Ms........................................ son/daughter/wife of ............. and presently residing at
........................................, who is presently employed with us and holding the position of
.................... as our true and lawful attorney (hereinafter referred to as the “Authorised
Representative”) to do in our name and on our behalf, all such acts, deeds and things as
are necessary or required in connection with or incidental to submission of our Proposal for
and selection as the Consultant for the National Data and Analytics Platform Project ,
proposed to be developed by the .......................................... (the “Authority”) including
but not limited to signing and submission of all applications, proposals and other documents
and writings, participating in pre-bid and other conferences and providing information/
responses to the Authority, representing us in all matters before the Authority, signing and
execution of all contracts and undertakings consequent to acceptance of our proposal and
generally dealing with the Authority in all matters in connection with or relating to or
arising out of our Proposal for the said Project and/or upon award thereof to us till the
entering into of the Agreement with the Authority.
AND, we do hereby agree to ratify and confirm all acts, deeds and things lawfully done or
caused to be done by our said Authorised Representative pursuant to and in exercise of the
powers conferred by this Power of Attorney and that all acts, deeds and things done by our
said Authorised Representative in exercise of the powers hereby conferred shall and shall
always be deemed to have been done by us.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF WE, ................................ THE ABOVE NAMED PRINCIPAL
HAVE EXECUTED THIS POWER OF ATTORNEY ON THIS ......................................
DAY OF ...................., 20.......
For ............................................
(Signature, name, designation and address)
Witnesses:
1.
2.
Notarised
Notes:
Accepted
........................................
(Signature, name, designation and address of the Attorney)

-- 173 of 198 --

Appendices
157 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
• The mode of execution of the Power of Attorney should be in accordance with the
procedure, if any, laid down by the applicable law and the charter documents of the
executant(s) and when it is so required the same should be under common seal affixed
in accordance with the required procedure. The Power of Attorney should be executed
on a non-judicial stamp paper of Rs. 100 (hundred) and duly notarised by a notary
public.
• Wherever required, the Applicant should submit for verification the extract of the
charter documents and other documents such as a resolution/power of attorney in
favour of the person executing this Power of Attorney for the delegation of power
hereunder on behalf of the Applicant.
• For a Power of Attorney executed and issued overseas, the document will also have to
be legalised by the Indian Embassy and notarised in the jurisdiction where the Power
of Attorney is being issued. However, Applicants from countries that have signed the
Hague Legislation Convention 1961 need not get their Power of Attorney legalised by
the Indian Embassy if it carries a conforming Apostille certificate.

-- 174 of 198 --

Appendices
158 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
APPENDIX-I
Form-5
Financial Capacity of the Applicant
(Refer Clause 2.2.2 (B))
S. No. Financial Year Annual Revenue
(Rs./US $ in million)
1.
2.
3.
Certificate from the Statutory Auditor$
This is to certify that ..................... (name of the Applicant) has received the
payments shown above against the respective years on account of professional
fees.
Name of the audit firm:
Seal of the audit firm
Date:
(Signature, name and designation of the authorised signatory)
$ In case the Applicant does not have a statutory auditor, it shall provide the certificate from
its chartered accountant that ordinarily audits the annual accounts of the Applicant.
Note: Please do not attach any printed Annual Financial Statement.

-- 175 of 198 --

Appendices
APPENDIX-I
Form-6
Particulars of Key Personnel
S.
No.
Designation of
Key Personnel
Name Educational
Qualification
Length of
Professional
Experience
Present Employment No. of
Eligible
Assignments$	Name of Firm Employed
Since
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8)
1. Program Chairperson
2. Project Director
&Team Leader
3. Principal AI Architect
Principal Program
4. Manager
Principal Product
5. Manager

-- 176 of 198 --

6.
7.
8.
9.
Data Scientist (AI and
Analytics)
Usability Lead
Technical Lead
Full Stack Developer
(AI Integration)
$Refer Form 9 of Appendix I Experience of Key Personnel.

-- 177 of 198 --

Appendices
Form-7
Proposed Methodology and Work Plan
The proposed methodology and work plan shall be described as follows:
1. Understanding of TOR (not more than two pages)
The Applicant shall clearly state its understanding of the TOR and also highlight its important aspects.
The Applicant may supplement various requirements of the TOR and also make precise suggestions
if it considers this would bring more clarity and assist in achieving the Objectives laid down in the
TOR.
2. Methodology and Work Plan (not more than three pages)
The Applicant will submit its methodology for carrying out this assignment, outlining its approach toward
achieving the Objectives laid down in the TOR. The Applicant will submit a brief write up on its
proposed team and organisation of personnel explaining how different areas of expertise needed
for this assignment have been fully covered by its proposal. In case the Applicant is a consortium,
it should specify how the expertise of each firm is proposed to be utilised for this assignment. The
Applicant should specify the sequence and locations of important activities, and provide a quality
assurance plan for carrying out the Consultancy Services.
Note: Marks will be deducted for writing lengthy and out of context responses.
Appendices

-- 178 of 198 --

APPENDIX-I
Form-8
Abstract of Eligible Assignments of the Applicant$
(Refer Clause 3.1.6)
S.No Name of Project Name of Client Payment$$ of
professional fees
received by the Applicant
(in Rs. crore)
(1) £ (2) (3) (4)
1
2
3
4
$ The Applicant should provide details of only those projects that have been undertaken by it under its
own name.
$$ Exchange rate for conversion of US $ shall be as per Clause 1.7.1.
£ The names and chronology of Eligible Projects included here should conform to the project-wise details
submitted in Form-10 of Appendix-I.
$ In case the Applicant does not have a statutory auditor, it shall provide the certificate from its chartered
accountant that ordinarily audits the annual accounts of the Applicant.
Note: The Applicant may attach separate sheets to provide brief particulars of other relevant experience
of the Applicant.
Certificate from the Statutory Auditor$
This is to certify that the information contained in Column 4 above is correct as per the accounts of the
Applicant and/ or the clients.
Name of the audit firm:
Seal of the audit firm
Date:
(Signature, name and designation of the authorised signatory)

-- 179 of 198 --

APPENDIX-I
Form-9
Abstract of Eligible Assignments of Key Personnel$
(Refer Clause 3.1.6)
Name of Key Personnel: Designation:
S.No Name of Project$ Name of Client Revenues realised
from the
Assignment/project
(in Rs. cr./ US$
million)
Name of firm
for which the
Key Personnel
worked
Designation of
the Key
Personnel on
the assignment
Date of
completion of the
assignment
Man
days
spent
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8)
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Appendices

-- 180 of 198 --

$ Use separate Form for each Key Personnel.
$$ The names and chronology of projects included here should conform to the project-wise details submitted in Form-11 of Appendix-I.
Note: The Applicant may attach separate sheets to provide brief particulars of other relevant experience of the Key Personnel.

-- 181 of 198 --

Appendices
165 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Form-10
Eligible Assignments of Applicant
(Refer Clause 3.1.6)
1. Name of Applicant:
2. Name of the Project:
3. Project details
4. Description of services performed by
the Applicant Firm:
5. Name of client and Address:
(indicate whether public or private)
6. Name and telephone no. of client’s
representative:
7. Payment received by the Applicant
(in Rs. crore):
8. Start date of the services (month/
year):
9. Finish date of the services (month/
year):
10. Brief description of the Project:
It is certified that the aforesaid information is true and correct to the best of my
knowledge and belief.
(Signature and name of Key Personnel)
Notes:
1. Use separate sheet for each Eligible Project.
2. The Applicant may attach separate sheets to provide brief particulars of other relevant
experience of the Applicant.
3. Exchange rate for conversion of US $ shall be as per Clause 1.7.1.

-- 182 of 198 --

Appendices
166 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Form-11
Eligible Assignments of Key Personnel
(Refer Clause 3.1.6)
1. Name of Key Personnel:
2. Designation of Key Personnel:
3. Name of the Project:
4. Project details
5. Name of Consulting Firm where
employed:
6. Description of services performed by
the Key Personnel (including
designation):
7. Name of client and Address:
(indicate whether public or private)
8. Name and telephone no. of client’s
representative:
9. Estimated professional fee received
for the project by the consulting firm
(in Rs. crore or US$ million):
10. Start date of the services (month/
year):
11. Finish date of the services (month/
year):
12. Brief description of the Project:
It is certified that the aforesaid information is true and correct to the best of my
knowledge and belief.
(Signature and name of Key Personnel)
Notes:
1. Use separate sheet for each Eligible Project.

-- 183 of 198 --

Appendices
167 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
2. The Applicant may attach separate sheets to provide brief particulars of other relevant
experience of the Key Personnel.
3. Exchange rate for conversion of US $ shall be as per Clause 1.7.1.

-- 184 of 198 --

Appendices
168 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Form-12
Curriculum Vitae (CV) of Key Personnel
1. Proposed Position:
2. Name of Personnel:
3. Date of Birth:
4. Nationality:
5. Educational Qualifications:
6. Employment Record:
(Starting with present position, list in reverse order every employment held.)
7. List of projects on which the Personnel has worked
Name of project Description of responsibilities
8. Details of the current assignment and the time duration for which services are required
for the current assignment.
Certification:
1 I am willing to work on the Project and I will be available for entire duration of
the Project assignment as required.
2 I, the undersigned, certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief, this CV
correctly describes me, my qualifications and my experience.
(Signature and name of the Key Personnel)
Place.........................................
(Signature and name of the authorised signatory of the Applicant)
Notes:
1. Use separate form for each Key Personnel
2. The names and chronology of assignments included here should conform to the project-wise
details submitted in Form-8 of Appendix-I.
3. Each page of the CV shall be signed in ink and dated by both the Personnel concerned and
by the Authorised Representative of the Applicant firm along with the seal of the firm.
Photocopies will not be considered for evaluation.

-- 185 of 198 --

Appendices
APPENDIX-I
Form-13
Deployment of Personnel
S.No.
Designation Name Man Days (MD) Week Numbers$
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
Total Man days
$ Add additional sheets for the period covering the entire duration of the Project i.e. up to 260 (two hundred and sixty) weeks.

-- 186 of 198 --

Appendices
170 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
APPENDIX-I
Form-14
Proposal for Sub-Consultant(s)
1. Details of the Firm
Firm’s Name, Address and Telephone
Name and Telephone No. of the Contact
Person
Fields of Expertise
No. of Years in business in the above Fields
2. Services that are proposed to be sub contracted:
3. Person who will lead the Sub- Consultant Name:
Designation:
Telephone No:
Email:
4. Details of Firm’s previous experience
Name of Work Name, address and
telephone no. of Client
Total
Value of
Services
Performed
Duration
of Services
Date of
Completion of
Services
4.1
4.2
4.3
(Signature and name of the authorised signatory)
Note:
1. The Proposal for Sub-Consultant(s) shall be accompanied by the details specified in Forms
12 and 13 of Appendix –I.
2. Use separate form for each Sub-Consultant

-- 187 of 198 --

Appendices
171 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
APPENDIX-I
Form-15
Declaration-Cum-Undertaking Regarding Blacklisting/ Non-Blacklisting
(Self-Certificate on Applicant’s Letter Head)
(Date and Reference)
To,
........................
...................... .....................
Subject: Declaration of not having been blacklisted by any Central/State Government and or PSU
I/ We, Proprietor/ Partner(s)/ Director(s) of M/S. hereby declare that the firm/company
namely M/s. , as on the date of Bid submission, has not been blacklisted or debarred
in the last three years and is not under blacklisting period /active debarred list by any of the Central
or State Government Organisation/ Public Sector Undertaking/Autonomous Body etc.
OR
I/ We Proprietor/ Partner(s)/ Director(s) of M/S hereby declare that the
firm/company namely M/S in the last three years, was blacklisted or debarred
by any of the Central or State Government Organisation/ Public Sector Undertaking/ Autonomous
Body etc. for a period of months/years w.e.f. . The period is over on and, as on the
date of Bid submission the firm /company is not in active blacklisting period and now entitled to
take part in Government tenders.
In case the above information found false I/We are fully aware that the tender/ contract shall be
rejected/cancelled by the Authority. In addition to the above, the Authority shall not be responsible
to pay the bills for any completed/ partially completed work, if contract was awarded.
Yours faithfully,
(Signature, name and designation of the authorised signatory)
(Name and seal of the Applicant / Lead Member)

-- 188 of 198 --

Appendices
172 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
APPENDIX-II
FINANCIAL PROPOSAL
Form-1
Covering Letter
(On Applicant’s letter head)
(Date and Reference)
To,
...................... .......................
.......................
Dear Sir,
Subject: Appointment of Consultant for Development and Operation of NDAP Project
I/We,.................................. (Applicant’s name) herewith enclose the Financial Proposal for
selection of my/our firm as Consultant for above.
I/We agree that this offer shall remain valid for a period of 90 (ninety) days from the
Proposal Due Date or such further period as may be mutually agreed upon.
Yours faithfully,
(Signature, name and designation of the authorised signatory)
Note: The Financial Proposal is to be submitted strictly as per forms given in the RFP.

-- 189 of 198 --

Appendices
173 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
APPENDIX-II
(See Clause 2.1.3)
Form-2
Financial Proposal
Item
No. Description Amount (Rs.)
A. RESIDENT PERSONNEL AND LOCAL COSTS
I
II
III
IV
V
VI
Remuneration for Resident Professional Personnel
(inclusive of all personal allowances)
Remuneration for Resident Support Personnel
(inclusive of all personal allowances)
Infrastructure
Software
Cost for 6000 complex queries
Miscellaneous Expenses
Sub-total Resident Personnel and Local Costs (A):
B. EXPATRIATE PERSONNEL
I Remuneration for Expatriate Personnel
(inclusive of all personal allowances)
Subtotal Expatriate Personnel (B):
Total of Personnel and Local Costs (A+B):
C. ADDITIONAL CONSULTATIONS (refer to Note 10)
I
II
III
IV
V
VI
VII
VIII
IX
3 man days each of:
Program Chairperson
Project Director & Team Leader
Principal AI Architect
Principal Program Manager
Principal product manager
Data Scientist (AI and Analytics)
Usability Lead
Technical Lead
Full Stack Developer (AI Integration)

-- 190 of 198 --

Appendices
174 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
Subtotal Additional Consultations (C):
D SUBTOTAL OF A+B+C
E OVERHEAD EXPENSES @........... % of (D)
F GST
G TOTAL (including taxes) (D+E+F) (in Rs.)
In Indian Rupees.................................................... (in figures)
….......................................................................... (in words)
H ADDITIONAL COSTS (not included in evaluation)
I
II
III
Domestic travel from firm’s office to the Project Office
(restricted to three return economy class air fares per month
for each personnel)
International travel from firm’s office to the Project Office
(restricted to one return full fare economy class air fares per
month for each Expatriate Personnel)
Return journeys from Project Office to Authority’s office to
attend meetings held by the Authority (provide indicative
amount for three return fares per month)
Total of Additional Costs (H)
I TOTAL COST OF THE CONSULTANCY (G+H)
In Indian Rupees............................................(in figures)
…........................................................................ (in words)
Note:
1. The financial evaluation shall be based on the above Financial Proposal, excluding
Additional Costs. The total in Item G shall, therefore, be the amount for purposes of
evaluation. Additional Costs in Item H shall not be reckoned for purposes of
financial evaluation.
2. Estimate of Costs for Item A I, A II and B I shall be as per Form-3.
3. Miscellaneous Expenses in Item A V shall not exceed 15% (fifteen per cent) of the
total amount in Item D.
4. Domestic Air Fare in Item H I shall not be payable to the Consultant’s Personnel
who are normally stationed in the National Capital Region (NCR). For Personnel
travelling from locations outside NCR, economy airfare shall be reimbursable,
subject to a maximum of one return fare per month per personnel.

-- 191 of 198 --

Appendices
175 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
5. All costs shall be reimbursed on production of a Statement of Expenses, duly
certified by the Authorised Representative. However, no details of expenditures
would be sought for overhead expenses, which will be reimbursed in proportion to
the total expenses under Item D.
6. The reimbursement of expenses shall be limited to the amounts indicated above.
7. Savings of upto 20% (twenty per cent) under any head of expenditure specified in
the summary of Financial Proposal may be re-appropriated by the Consultant and
added to any other head of expenditure, subject to a ceiling of 10% (ten per cent) in
respect of the recipient head of expenditure. Upon Notification of such
reappropriation to the Authority, the Financial Proposal shall be deemed to be
amended, and payment shall be made accordingly.
8. No escalation on any account will be payable on the above amounts.
9. All other charges not shown here and all insurance premia are considered included
in the man day rate/ overhead/ miscellaneous expenses.
10. The Authority may require the Key Personnel to visit the Authority’s offices for
further consultations beyond the tasks specified in the Terms of Reference. The cost
(remuneration including personal allowances) of 3 (three) man days of each Key
Personnel is included in the Financial Proposal. The Authority may require upto 24
(twenty four) extra days of consultation with any or all Key Personnel on payment
of additional charges. For any increase as compared to the aforesaid 3 (three) days,
payment shall be computed solely on the basis of relevant man day rates specified
in the Financial Proposal. In all cases, return full fare economy class airfare shall be
reimbursed in addition, as per actuals.
11. The Authority may require Professional Personnel to visit the Authority’s offices for
further consultations after the Development Phase. The Additional Costs on this
account shall be paid to the Consultant as per agreed man day rates and economy
return airfare as per actuals shall also be reimbursed. However, the total number of
additional man days requisitioned hereunder shall not exceed 300 (three hundred).
12. All payments shall be made in Indian Rupees and shall be subject to applicable
Indian laws withholding taxes if any.
13. For the purposes hereof “Statement of Expenses” means a statement of the
expenses incurred on each of the heads indicated in the Financial Proposal; provided
that in relation to expenses on Personnel, the Statement of Expenses shall be
accompanied by the particulars of Personnel and the man days spent on the
Consultancy.

-- 192 of 198 --

Appendices
APPENDIX-II
Form-3
Estimate of Personnel Costs
ID
No.
Position Name Man day Rate
(Rs.)
Total Man Days Amount
(Rs.)
A I. Remuneration for Resident Professional Personnel (including all personal allowances)
Total
A II. Remuneration for Resident Support Personnel (including all personal allowances)

-- 193 of 198 --

Total
B I. Remuneration for Expatriate Personnel (including all personal allowances)
Total:

-- 194 of 198 --

APPENDIX - III
178 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
List Of Bid-Specific Provisions6
A. Clauses with currency-based footnotes
1. Introduction.
2. Clause 2.2.3: Conditions of Eligibility of Applicants.
3. Clause 2.11.2: Amendment of RFP.
Note: The above footnotes marked “$” shall be retained in the RFP for guidance of the
Applicants while submitting their respective Proposals.
B. Schedules with non-numeric footnotes
All non-numeric footnotes marked “$” in the Schedules shall be retained in the
respective Schedules for guidance of the Applicants while submitting their respective
Proposals.
C. Appendices with non-numeric footnotes
All non-numeric footnotes in the Appendices shall be retained in the respective
Appendices for guidance of the Applicants. These shall be omitted by the Applicants
while submitting their respective Proposals.
D. Schedules and Appendices with blank spaces
All blank spaces in the Schedules and Appendices shall be retained in the RFP. These
shall be filled up when the format of the respective Schedule or Appendix is used.
6 This Appendix-III contains a list of Clauses, Schedules and Appendices that would need to be suitably
modified for reflecting bid-specific provisions. This Appendix-III may, therefore, be included in the RFP
document to be issued to prospective Applicants

-- 195 of 198 --

APPENDIX - IV
179 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
1. NDAP Architecture: The architecture of NDAP is designed to ensure security,
reliability, and scalability. Its cloud-based framework enables smooth access, high
performance, and efficient handling of large volumes of data. The system also
supports continuous monitoring and rapid response to operational needs, ensuring
that the platform delivers timely, accurate, and user-friendly data, making NDAP a
trusted and dependable platform for all users.
Storage for onboarded datasets on NDAP ~ 2 TB
2. The technological stack used for NDAP to ensure security, scalability, and efficient
data processing is as follows:
i. Data Sourcing and Processing: Uses Python for data extraction and
processing, with PostgreSQL for structured data storage.
ii. Front-End: Built with React JS, hosted on S3, with CloudFront for fast delivery
and a Web Application Firewall for security.
iii. Web Services and APIs: Backend developed with Python and Flask, served via
Nginx for high performance.
iv. Data Infrastructure: EC2 instances, load balancers, auto-scaling groups, and
IAM ensure scalability, reliability, and secure access.
v. Storage and Backup: S3 and EBS for storage, with AWS Backup for data
protection.
vi. Analytics and Streaming: Real-time monitoring using AWS Kinesis Firehose
and API Gateway.
vii. Search and NLU: Semantic and context-aware search via Python, Vector DB,
BERT, and SBERT embeddings.
viii. Authentication: Secure access managed by AWS Cognito.

-- 196 of 198 --

180 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
NDAP serves as a centralized hub that not only makes government data accessible
but also encourages its practical use for research, policy planning, and innovation.
By integrating diverse datasets and providing advanced tools for analysis, it enables
users to explore correlations, perform cross-sectoral comparisons, and gain a deeper
understanding of complex data relationships.
3. High Level Design:
All EC2 instances in the architecture run on Ubuntu OS.
A single large RDS (Postgres) instance has been used as a Database.
a. Data Extraction:
Data Extraction mainly uses EC2 instances installed with Ubuntu OS. Python
scripts are used and scheduled to integrate with different external systems and
extract/scrape the data to load into S3 staging area and RDS (Postgres DB).
Python on
EC2
S3 Object
store
RDS

-- 197 of 198 --

181 RFP for Consultant for NDAP Project
b. Data Processing:
Data Processing involves picking up the data from S3 buckets and reloading the data into RDS after
standardising it. Data quality and Data standardization checks are performed using Python scripts on
EC2 instances.
c. UI/Frontend:
All the frontend related artifacts are stored in S3 buckets and EC2 Instances in EBS storage. The front
code pipelines are designed using the AWS Code Commit and AWS Code Build along with automating
them with Pipelines. All changes to the websites are automatically published through code pipelines
post building the code when a commit is performed on the repository.
d. API:
API layer is built using Python through leveraging the flask framework installed on top of EC2 instances.
The API layer acts as the core for retrieving the data from the back end search systems and Databases.
Search system APIs are built leveraging Weaviate and Opensearch APIs in the backend.
e. Data Management:
The data management is done using multiple data stores which includes – RDS (PostgreSQL) as the
primary datastore, Redshift for storing the data required for performing joins and merges in the front
end and Weaviate (Installed using Docker on EC2) and OpenSearch (Service).
f. User Access Management:
User Access management of portal users is performed using the AWS Cognito integration with the
backend services through Python APIs.
g. User Feedback:
User feedback management is configured through userback addon. It has to be configured via userback.

-- 198 of 198 --

